The experience that I’ve chosen is a recurrent one, something I have infallibly replicated each time I’ve immersed myself in its parent conditions. The first time I noticed this phenomenon was in high school after I was in a major bike accident. As I was put in the back of an ambulance my bludgeoned neurons settled, swaddled by the sterile metallic box and the uniformed creatures inside. The chaotic scramble leading up to this voyage melted away, replaced only by a deep sense of calm, a visceral assurance that everything was in its right place. 
The next time I met this phenomenon was during a strange illness, some malign thing had inhabited me while I was in Europe with a sinister plan to guide my life to Hell. It took some time writhing in agony, physical and bureaucratic, before I was admitted into the hospital. At that point I was on the brink of insanity, my mind’s anchor being lifted and thrown across the bottom with each vicious attack of the storm. I was welcomed to the emergency room by the distinctive whirrthumpthump of the automatic door, ushering me into the pearly holding tank for people like me. As I waited, my insanity waned, each shard of nonsensical chaos slowly falling, winding down like autumn leaves in their journey back to earth. Eventually the knot was undone, my leaves left resting still, exactly where they were supposed to be.
I imagine it went something like this: the young couple rushes across the Golden Gate, a mad dash to San Francisco Children’s Hospital. Her water broke at 9:14 pm, about 45 minutes ago. Her contractions came on quickly and with a violence she couldn’t have expected. Each contraction evokes a scream, cascading into the man’s ears and bouncing around his skull, in turn making his muscles tense and blood pressure rise and pushing his right foot further to the floor, closer to the place that would end this unendurable chaos. They scream through the urban night, arrive in great time, funnel through the door into the maternity ward and 7 more hours of hellish waves, each increasing in frequency and vigor. The 5’3 115 pound woman knows that her baby is nearly 3 weeks late but can’t know that he is nearly 9 pounds with a cranial circumference larger than her narrow hips could ever hope to accommodate. She also can’t know that her baby has revolved 180 degrees and wrapped its umbilical cord around its neck like a snake around prey. Her contractions begin to dominate time, queuing the staff that the critical moment is approaching. The baby’s ECG become sporadic, each contraction snuffing its heartbeat to a faint gasp. The staff knows because it’s their job. Cut it out. Now. They race her bed to the operating room, the neglected wheels on her bed screaming with her as they fly down the hall. She and the table are prepped and the staff makes short work of it, lacerating her abdomen with extra margin, reaching in and unwinding the coiled form, unsure of either of their fates. They pull him out, clear his throat, and he breathes. His little chest rises up and down... Up and down like waves on a windless ocean night... Her heart rate drops back to normal, and everything settles back into its right place.