Edward Hayden
Noel E. Smyth
Writing 2: Rhetoric and Inquiry
4-8-18


Genre Analysis of Satirical Fiction
via Kurt Vonnegut’s Sirens of Titan.


Readers of fiction tend to approach a piece in a relatively predictable way. One will typically have some idea of the author’s perspective beforehand, allowing them to begin reading from a tangible baseline. One will either be accustomed to the writer’s style prior to reading this piece, or they will become quickly acquainted as the story unfolds. The reader will stumble through the story, earnestly following its peaks and troughs until they reach, in most cases, a satisfactory resolution. After the story has concluded, the reader is left with an option to analyze; if the reader so pleases, she can search for allegory and message ad nauseum, but the more casual reader will be completely satiated with the surface of the story. 
My hasty elucidation above, while surely relevant to a narrow swath of fictional text, fails to describe the process required to read and appreciate many more types of complex fictional writing. The subcategory I am choosing, that, if approached with the aforementioned technique, will be grossly misunderstood, is that of Satire. I remember the first time I read a satirical piece, another Vonnegut, I was rather confused. The prose, the story, and the flow all seemed rather elementary. I would read statements he was making and feel a sort of premonition that I was doing it wrong. My friend pointed out to me how this one section abstractly related to the old testament, and then I realized what satire was and that this book I had been reading was indeed satirical.
Satire is the practice of insinuating ridicule and shame on individuals or society through cunning and typically humorous means in a text or other creative medium. In standard fiction, the message or meaning is typically second to the story, like a passenger that the reader has the choice of appreciating. In Satire, however, the entire premise of the text’s existence is to portray the deeper meaning, the author’s critique of whatever the subject may be. It's as if the text exists purely as a comical currier of the author’s deeper message. If the message is skipped, you might as well have read a children’s book, for that is often the level of surface complexity in a satirical piece. 
The satirical target of Vonnegut’s Sirens of Titan is as broad as they get: Vonnegut seeks to simultaneously articulate to his broad audience the limiting nature of human beings in their present form, aspects of the human experience that he abhors, as well as provide what he believes to be a solution for our shortcomings. Vonnegut, abiding by the conventions of satire, assigns qualities and motifs to specific characters in order to encapsulate elements of his message. For example, the book begins with a character named Malachi Constant. Constant is the epitome of Vonnegut's dismay: He is rich, vulgar, selfish, vane, and brutish. As Constant acts, Vonnegut intends for the reader to notice these unattractive aspects and ideally associate the reader’s own motives and actions with those of Constant. Another example of satire in this text is the emphasis on the inequity of luck. Throughout the book, there are instances of profound chance and luck that Vonnegut manages to portray with a satirical tone. This message is intended to distill into the reader as an objective reminder of luck in their subjective position. The message Vonnegut is trying to convey becomes stronger the more the reader meditates on it. 


Word Count: 570