Four eyes, all staring into the infinite lense. Two eyes fresh, brand new. Perfectly receptive to the light, unobscured, curious. Two eyes in the jaded shadows, weathered, tormented. A mutual exchange of wisdom. One direction flows the wisdom of Time, the other of God and purity. The old eyes spare the new from their scars, their misfortunes and cauterization. Forever scorched by the nuclear blasts they absorbed, by the missed opportunities. And for what?


The new eyes are full and empty at the same time. Full of wonder, hope, excitement. Empty of sin, lust, bias, ambition. A vessel that transmutes light into form, understanding, wonder. The new eyes feel the significance of the moment, unclouded by understanding. The old eyes feel the significance of the moment, too heavy to intellectualize. A connection of Mind, of Mind from the same essence, of essence from the same Mind. Quite possibly a transfer of life itself, a decanting from an old receptacle to new. 


Speechless, both. My grandfather was always taciturn, my mother tells me frequently. I was taciturn until I learned not to be, which was around ten months. My mother loves to boast about my precocious polysyllabism, but she never knew I got it from mere passive absorption from her Father. He gave me his mathematical ability, too. When he was excised from the Engineering-Physics program at Princeton and drafted into the Second World War, he stored his potential somewhere deep inside. I believe it was included in the decanting, and it’s up to me to continue where he left off. 


He was a career military man, Army Captain in the Great war, Colonel in Korea. He must have developed a disdain for the drab colors and sterile machinery, as I share this disdain. Now is a chance to go a fundamentally different direction, to explore the manifold possibilities of existence. Use the mind for good, for Creation, not for mere necessity that circumstance requires. Think free, live free. 


I don’t consciously remember anything good about my grandparents. By the time I was able to record memories, they were not. My only solid pictures of any of them involve the horrors that a human endures as they decay. Tegaderm covering large portions of skin too thin to support the ruptured capillaries beneath, made porous by a strict regime of blood thinners. Nonsensical murmurs in dementia-space, utterances of medically-augmented cyborgs approaching the End of Days. It seems as if the edges of the world soften in old age, reality becomes more fluid. Only in my reminiscence have I come to appreciate my grandparents, and over the last few years I have been building models. Models of them, models of myself made out of models of them. Photographs are a primary tether to reality, and to reality that once was. Through pictures like this I have been able to create a tapestry of sorts, weaving threads from cause to effect, culminating in this person I call Me. Through pictures I have been able to supplement my experience and create a more holistic picture of my family. My Dad has told me that his parents’ greatest regret was that they were too old to have a relationship with their grandchild. This saddens me too, however the clues they left behind have allowed me to have a relationship with them, one that spans the great abyss between our lives.