Self Portrait in Bike Crashes


The first time I was in the hospital for something other than my birth was when I was seven. My friend Ryan and I were biking with my mom, attempting to get to a remote beach called Tennessee Valley. At that point, my skull dwarfed the rest of my body and I hardly had control over my noodly little extremities. We rode our bikes down to rough and undulating terrain, going up and down progressively steeper natural roller coasters. On the last one, I lost control of my bike. The handlebars swung left, then right, and next thing I knew I was on the ground with liquid spewing out of my forehead and down my chest. People crowded around, panicking. I remember one woman noting how much blood I was losing, and forcing me to eat some crushed up pills that she had taken out of her pocket. The ambulance came, and took me to get plastic reconstive surgery at the local hospital. I can still feel the raised spot on my forehead. 


In middle school my friends and I composed the dominant biker gang of our town. We would leave school and go directly to the local jumps, challenging our nascent minds and bodies in typical adolescent fashion. Objectively, we were constantly out of control, and we hit the ground frequently. On one such encounter, I fell onto my wrist from about five feet in the air, and I immediately felt a type of pain I had never experienced. I tried to convince my friends that it was broken, but they just called me a pussy. We all rode home in the dark, and I winced in pain the entire way. I came to school the next day in my first cast. It was purple. 


Early in high school, my biking friends and I would meet up with older, faster riders to try to expand our comfort zones. Once we went to Oakland and met up with this group of kids, maybe 5 years older, fresh out of high school, and shuttled their downhill trails in their nice pickup trucks. They would smoke weed each time we drove to the top of the mountain, and back then I was petrified of getting stoned. Each lap we took down the trail, we rode faster and more aggressively. By the last lap, we were really pushing it, trying to show off how fast we could ride to these kids we revered. I took the final corner into the steep shoot by the road and lost the front tire. I careened down into the dust, and landed with my right hand sandwiched between my chest and the earth. It swelled up to the size of a grapefruit, and I went to Urgent Care shortly after. 


The summer after my Sophomore year was my first season racing professionally, and I got some good results towards the end. I came into the offseason with lots of confidence and determination to come out the following year swinging. I was riding fast and reckless, constantly pushing the envelope. I don’t remember too much, but it felt like a dream. I was wandering around the forest aimlessly, dreaming. Somehow I had the realization that it wasn’t a dream, but a muted reality. I had a friend there, and when I came out he was in the throes of panic, as I had been unconscious for around forty minutes. I had the wherewithal to understand how to get out, and we started the four mile trek back up the trail, across the ridge, and up to the knoll where we had enough service to call 9-1-1. My wrist was compound fractured, and remember it twisting and crunching on itself as we walked. They tried to put me in the helicopter, but I refused, as my parents had always emphasized how expensive that would be. 
        
        Shortly after my big crash, I was back to full speed. As I didn’t remember crashing, it didn’t affect my confidence. I had a moulded carbon-fiber bionic wrist, but it just helped me go faster. One day I hit a slick patch of limestone, and before I could process it my right shoulder had been ripped out of the socket and lodged behind my back. The next thirty second or so were the most uncomfortable of my life, but God spared me severe permanent trauma and allowed it to slip back into the socket, and for all the fragmented pieces of bone to fall almost perfectly back into place. I think about my shoulder every day, and can’t sleep on my right side.