Cosmic Matrimony


From the punctual perspective, it may seem as if Sol and Luna have always been together, in love. After all, day after day, month after month, and year after year Sol and Luna complete the same repetitious dance, replete with rhythmic expressions and cyclical palpitations of their passion. Sure, on rare occasion Sol makes Luna mad and her skin turns red as blood. Or sometimes their love turns cold, Luna becoming black as the cosmic abyss. But these spastic fugues are invariably temporary, as our heavenly couple always returns to their periodic perfection. 
As permanent as the matrimony of our planetary parents may seem, it isn’t. Father Sol spent a long, long time as a bachelor before he met our mother. He spent his time in cosmic contemplation, fusing hydrogen into helium just to pass the eons. There were quite a few relationships before he met mother, but all had a similar fate. First came Mercury, but she got too close to Father, and their dynamic became, well, too mercurial to sustain. Next was Venus, and from what I understand, she and father had a lot of potential. For all I know, they could have had kids and a happy life, but father doesn’t like to talk about it much. I only know that Venus spent too much time looking at father, and eventually her surface was scorched and desolated by fathers intensity. Venus, the planet of love, scorched into obscurity. Maybe passion, like all sustainable processes, needs modulation. Mother reminds me of this each time she spends two weeks out of the month facing away from father. Saturn was a bit too eccentric for father, spending years away on her elliptic escapades, and then returning out of the black, expecting father to take her back as if nothing happened. We know father well enough to understand his value of commitment in a relationship. The rest of the eligible women in the neighborhood were much too cold for Father’s taste, and it was in the throes of his dejection that he first met Theia. 
Theia was the new girl on the block, cute and innocent, but not without the aire of wisdom and grace that enthralled Father. Theia and Sol were in love immediately, and Theia glimmered in ways Father’s exes hadn’t: she was the perfect size, about a million times smaller than father, and lived just the right distance from his surface that he could kiss her all he wanted without burning her. They danced and sang throughout the Universe to share their budding love with everyone. They lived carefree for a long time, until the fateful day I came along. 
Hurtling through space at astronomical speeds, baby Earth smashed into Theia with the wrath of the Gods. Theia shattered into a million pieces, scattering Father’s light into infinity. Their perfect little life together had disintegrated in an instant, and both of them were awestruck with the dramatic change of events. What would they do now? This was not the life they had in mind. 
The fragments of Theia’s formerly flawless body were rearranging, growing into something new. Theia changed form, a lumpy, pale husk of her former self. That’s the day mother became Luna, and Theia receded into the rosy annals of the past. Luna and Father worked together, Father supporting mother as I grew in the intervening space. I gained mass, and Luna allowed me to develop a consistent rhythm with the cosmos. I formed oceans of water, an eclectic atmosphere, and eventually developed a novel set of flora and fauna on my surface. Father and Mother watched over me as I grew and began exploring the possibilities of the universe, nudging me in the right direction along the way.
Today I am strong and rich, and in many ways more than Father or Mother could have ever hoped to be. I’m the host of a diverse and marvelous ecosystem, and I discover new things about the world each day. I always share my discoveries with Mother and Father, and it is to them that I ultimately thank for my existence. I may have been an unexpected addition to the family, and maybe even ruined Mother and Father’s relationship, but look how absolutely magnificent my existence is!