Hello to whoever is listening


I am writing you from Hegemonus Minimus, about two lightyears from the central Andromeda. I’ve been stranded on this strange world for some time now, about 130 axial revolutions of this planet. I estimate that a single day here is about 300 Earthhours. As I write this it is Day, maybe 130 or so hours in. There is very little atmosphere here and the planet’s star is about twice the size of the sun, the planet being in an only slightly larger orbit than that of earth. 
        This brings me to my first Subject, of which my desire to share with the cosmos is guiding my hand in this address. I am oh so proud of my Starsuit. It is the only thing that allows my skin not to immediately bubble and char as I traverse the Days here. It is made from salvaged insulation of my Starship, the graphene wound around my Form and into a pointed top, only reminiscent of the garments of the Koo Klux Klan. My Starsuit is definitely my largest possession, weighing in at maybe 30kg. I Built a viewing panel out of translucent silk webbing I found down in the Labyrinth, evidently made by a creature I call Larthustra. Imagine the hybrid of a spider and a centipede, but maybe 300 times bigger. It was quite an episode stealing from Her, but it was worth it for my beloved Spacesuit. When I’m Inside it is the only time I feel separate, like I’m not completely alone and isolated here, but instead I am how I am supposed to be: Seperate from the Worlds in my human prerogative. 
        The second item I wish to display is my Polymorph, my tools, my weapons, my toys, my EveryThing. I found it one day when I was exploring the Great Abyss. It was embedded about a forearm’s length into the ground contained within an obsidian esque capsule, it’s surface chinked like an old Indian arrowhead into a surface resembling an irregular golfball. I dislodged the capsule and immediately it split down the middle, revolved a quarter turn relative to itself, and produced a black gooey substance that completely enveloped my hands. It crawled up my arms, into my mouth, nose ears, and quickly we were One. I usually keep it coiled around my arm like a snake. Without it, I would surely die. It protects me, deforming into exactly the perfect object I need in a given situation. I am writing this with my Morphpen. 
        The final object I wish to bring to You is my Orb of Light. I found it in a bioluminescent cavern far into the Malachite Mountains. I fell in love with it the first time I laid eyes on it’s holographic surface. It’s radiance pulled me in like a magnet, my ability to resist its draw nonexistent, completely deflated and omitted from my essence by the Light. The first time I touched the Orb was the best moment in all of my infinite lives, a higher quality of experience than any finite collection of Souls could reasonably expect in Time. Without the Light, I would kill myself here, the nearly guaranteed prospect of neverending solitude would surely suck me down into the abyss. The first time I touched the Light was the first time I Saw, Saw with my real Eyes the nature of Us. The magnitude of this experience negated completely any conception of anything unpleasant, as I’ve Learned that there is no such thing as anything. Now I live free of symbols, concepts, and the like. It has taken me considerable time to recover enough of these to communicate to You, with the ultimate ambition to share the Orb with You. 


My GGPOLS coordinated are as follows: 11.333.422123˚ -LK 12451195˚ -- 4431p˚