Displacement


Plummeting is a rather beautiful state. Suspended in a moment, weightless, free of any constraint or worldly concern. Of course, every beautiful thing has its price, and that moment of bliss doesn’t quite justify the impact. You hit the ground so hard the nervous signals from the tips of your extremities don’t have time to travel to your head before you feel your bones shatter, you chest cave in and expel every last breath of life. The following moment, ironically enough, is another suspension. You lie peacefully, the world appearing as if it was projected through a crystal ball. Silence at first, and then the ringing starts. Ringing in your head, in your heart, racing up and down your limbs until the synaptic tsunami makes landfall.
 It felt like Lucifer had taken my wing and contorted it in the ideal way to summon Satan. It was stuck behind my back, pointing up into the sky at its unholy target. I got my breath back. With my wing wrenched from its god-given place in the world, I slid down the embankment as panic flooded my body. Someone had seen me go down and landed just as I reached the bottom. “My wing.. It’s ruined”  I uttered in choked hysterics. Just then, I slipped on a pebble, shifting my weight forward and onto my right foot. Like a magnet, my wing was sucked snugly back into place. My world returned in a moment, and my mind quickly blocked out the memory of the most traumatic experience of my life.         
My convalescence was a dreary time, a time for reflection as redefinition of what in life makes me feel satisfied. The days blurred to weeks and weeks melted into months. Eventually, I healed. I cautiously resumed my activities, and even tried to fly again. Sticking only to gliding down from cliffs and landing, it was possible. Flapping, on the other hand, caused me to regress back into injury. Weeks of perseverance and training solved my issues, and eventually I was able to return to the skies. 
It wasn’t for quite some time that I began seeing the Contortionist. I first spotted her on the bluff, arching and bending in demonic ways, dislocating and relocating her wings. This caused me to shut down, starting with my mind. I remember imagining my wing again, bent behind my back, stuck like a pervasive glitch in my existence. The flashbacks caused me to wince and grit my teeth. Then I felt the sensation permeate my physical form and my wing felt like it was about to be ripped out again. I looked away from the Contortionist and got away as fast as I could, but I couldn’t escape her. At first, I would see her when I was out and about. Every time the same thing happened, varying in intensity, but consistently shaking me to the core. Then I started seeing her in my dreams. I saw her in my environment as before, but now embedded in the scenery and inescapable. My wing suffered in the real world, falling back into agony for no apparent physical reason. 
        One night her presence became overwhelming. I tried to avoid casting my eyes onto her pretzel form, but to no avail. I closed them, but she was there. And then, all of a sudden, I looked at her. She stopped her horrific undulations and looked at me. I stared at her mangled body, along each malicious component of the ungodly knot, and then at her eyes. She slowly brought herself back to normal, unfolding as if she was a clay figurine. She looked at me for an instant, and then disappeared. I paused, thoughtless. 
        The next day I saw her, but only standing, staring at me. I smiled back. Since that night, I haven’t had issues with my wing, and I haven’t seen her recently. I’m finding my flow through the air again, and have learned a lot about my construction, about the interconnection of all things within me. Because of the injury, I’ve had to adapt my body, strengthening certain regions to compensate for the damaged goods. As a result, I’m stronger and more capable than ever, and complete with a newfound understanding of my physical limits.