Hayden 
Teddy Hayden
Silver
Writing 2
6/12/19


Wisdom from Within
        
The intent when producing a piece of writing varies substantially from writer to writer; often the author is attempting to send a message to the reader, whether it be a jab at the political status-quo, an idea for the future of the state, or an insight into their unique way of thinking. Occasionally the writing exists independently, detached from the world and its problems, a standalone piece of linguistic artistry beheld for its creation only. Throughout history, thousands of writers have developed their authorial ideal from the works of their predecessors and the demands of their historical climate. Occasionally, a writer will find the formula for eternal relevance, their insights so piercing or style so beautiful that others find their work meaningful hundreds or thousands of years later. Composing this list are the greats, the true sculptors of history: Plato, Euclid, Shakespeare, Descartes. Michel de Montaigne epitomises this rare creative, his pioneering autobiographical essays blending introspective candor, naturalism, proto-existentialism, and eastern ideology into an exceptionally accessible form; a collection of satirical fugues finding relevance even in the infinitely more complicated twenty-first century. According to Neil Kenny, Montaigne's writings “have gripped readers from Shakespeare to Virginia Woolf and Orson Welles”. (6) Montaigne serves as the internal voice addressing the unaddressed, leaving not even the most grotesque stone of the human experience unturned. In order to write and live more effectively, we should all take a page out of Montaigne’s Essais.
        Part of Montaigne’s success comes from his ability to address a central concept from multiple angles, appealing to different ways of understanding the underlying message. This quality, along with the concision of his essay format, allows him to reach a much broader audience than one could with a novel. From patterns in his work, it is evident that one of Montaigne’s core beliefs was that development is typically more complete and beautiful when untouched by human tendrils. Montaigne directly exposes the reader to this idea in his piece Of Cannibals by quoting Propertius, "The ivy grows best spontaneously, the arbutus best in shady caves; and the wild notes of birds are sweeter than art can teach” (4). He includes this quote to get the reader thinking about naturalistic beauty, then segues into his discussion of a Cannibalistic island society. Montaigne does not deride the Cannibals; conversely, he notes the primacy of valor in their society and compares this to the ideals of Europe. He explains how the savages, when faced with certain death, hold their heads high and never surrender. He contrasts this with the ubiquity of cowardice in the West, and concludes the essay with a discussion of the barbarism practiced in the name of Christianity. While some may be convinced by this blunt argument, Montaigne cunningly revisits the concept in his piece Of the Education of Children. Here he advocates for independence and opportunities for genuine insight in any education scheme, creating an environment conducive to wisdom as opposed to just knowledge. He makes a strong case for a minimally invasive schooling, again bashing Man[1] and the overconfidence of his mind. These two pieces address the central theme of nonintervention from fundamentally different directions, connecting people of disparate views and levels of receptivity to an imperative ingredient for living happy and meaningful lives.
        Montaigne’s essays, while autobiographical, tend to be acutely psychoanalytical in nature. His self reflection and recurrent analysis of his own motives, ideas, and preconceptions are effectively unprecedented and went underappreciated in their time. Elizabeth Guild argues that everyone, from the present day reader of Montaigne to his contemporaries, didn’t see the extent of his clarity and prescience, “failing to fully attest to the disruptive logic of the essayist’s skeptical ways” (7). Montaigne takes a Freudian (or Freud Montaingean?) approach to sexuality and interpersonal affairs, developing his own idea of repression as he writes about his memories and experiences. This theme is so pronounced that is has led modern researchers to attempt to incorporate Montaigne and his Essay into their psychotherapeutic toolkit. In Should we be Writing Essays Instead of Articles? Rachel Starr explores how “psychotherapists might make of Montaigne’s Essays, both as a fruitful model for writing about and for reflecting on the human condition” (1). Montaigne seems to use the writing process as one of self discovery, rather than an opportunity to convey a prior insight or push a preformulated agenda. In On Idleness, one of his earliest pieces, Montaigne elucidates his reason for writing the Essais, providing a deep insight into the nature of human creativity in the process. Montaigne ironically states “I could do my mind no better service than to leave it in complete idleness to commune with itself, to come to rest, and to grow settled”(10), referring to his purposeful solitude near the end of his life. Montaigne finds the opposite to be true, comparing his reclusive mind to “a runaway horse, it is a hundred times more active on its own than behalf than ever it was for others. It presents me with so many chimeras and imaginary monsters, one after another, without order or plan, that, in order to contemplate their oddness and absurdity at leisure, I have begun to record them in writing, hoping it time to make my mind ashamed of them.”(10) effectively stating that the Essais are merely a grand expression of his unfocused subconscious mind. And as Stephen Zweig said in his book Montaigne, Montaigne is “one who’s significance is not properly revealed until a particular moment”(2), referring to how an audience must experience the content of his work to truly resonate with his expression. From this perspective, each of his insights into the human condition is an emergent property of his network of insecurities, interpersonal affairs, and other internal tribulations, intentionally separate from his conscious idea of self. Only through writing, using the page as a psychotherapeutic mediator, do Montaigne’s ideas cohere into something insightful and eternally relevant, sewing the procedural seed for the band of psychoanalytical typists to march along in Jungian fashion a few hundred years later. 
        Montaigne’s practices are contrarian, progressive, and insightful, but how can we integrate them into our own lives? In his research into the efficacy of our education systems, Elie Holzer claims that “Montaigne’s essay is the latest of several unlikely but rich sources of insight I am using in my work as a practice-oriented philosopher and researcher of Jewish education. My primary focus is havruta study, an age-old mode of Jewish learning most commonly described as the study of traditional texts by a pair of learners.”(2) Holzer discusses how Montaigne’s piece The Art of Discussion is advocating for exactly this tactic in education. Montaigne urges for an argumentative type of discussion, creating the presence of a different interpretation and an opportunity to make disparate views compatible through discussion and critical analysis. Holzer, and likely Montaigne himself, believes that the current format of learning is too fragile, breeding hyper subjectivity and destroying our ability to empathize and understand complex topics from multiple perspectives. Analyzing Montaigne from a different level, Jenny Diski in her piece Learning how to live says of Montaigne’s reclusion to his tower  “It turned out to be not so much a retirement, as a reinvention of life and form”(3). She uses his success as evidence for the virtue of doing nothing, yet another one of Montaigne’s tenets. Diski urges us to understand “productivity” from a higher level, to let children daydream and read, as opposed to shaming them for “wasting time”. She reminds that “creative work sits uneasily in the fantasy life between dread leisure and the slog of the virtuous, hardworking life. It’s seen as a method of doing something while doing nothing, one that stops you flying away in terror” (4). Ultimately, Diski’s piece serves to say that it’s okay to not be deliberately productive, as true insight and creativity often come under the disguise of leisure. 
        Michel de Montaigne is a clear literary genius and visionary, addressing taboo subjects with an unprecedented level of eloquence and candor, shaping the foundations of human understanding, self-reflection, and literature in the process. For the students of his time, Montaigne’s was a voice of liberation. Since the dawn of humanity, socialized people have been convinced in one way or another that the most direct route to piety and fulfillment is to put into the machine, to be a ‘productive’ person and fulfill your preordained responsibility to society. People were taught that the grotesque contents of their mind were the works of the Devil, untouchable by the intellect and doomed to the powerful whirlpool of repression. Montaigne argues against this concrete view of humanity, urging people to be brave enough to be unproductive, to confront the unapproachable contents of themselves. According to David Keymer, “Montaigne was a reliable guide to sanity, tolerance, and humility, all the values humankind hoped to salvage”(7). Montaigne provides an accessible platform for these ideas, allowing those previously barred from entering the introspective realm a view into the unabridged contents of his life, inciting an entirely new method of narrative that didn’t gain traction for another three hundred years. Montaigne’s impact is still resonating through history, with attention to his work at an all-time high in the technocratic twenty-first century, a time when the moral fabric of human beings is pushed to new limits. No matter the complexity, the situational differences between our predicament and that of Montaigne, his lessons retain their relevance, reminding us that the true path to wisdom, to the solution of our myriad ethical dilemmas, is within ourselves.








________________
[1] I use this ironically, and only because of the abjectly patriarchal society of Montaigne’s time. Montaigne was even a feminist, reminding us “males and females are cast in the same mold; except for education and custom, the difference is not great”.