THE BEET IS THE MOST INTENSE of vegetables. 
The radish, admittedly, is more feverish, but the fire of the radish is a cold fire, the fire of discontent not of passion. Tomatoes are lusty enough, yet there runs through tomatoes an undercurrent of frivolity. Beets are deadly serious. 
Slavic peoples get their physical characteristics from potatoes, their smoldering inquietude from radishes, their seriousness from beets. 
The beet is the melancholy vegetable, the one most willing to suffer. You can't squeeze blood out of a turnip . . . 
The beet is the murderer returned to the scene of the crime. The beet is what happens when the cherry finishes with the carrot. The beet is the ancient ancestor of the autumn moon, bearded, buried, all but fossilized; the dark green sails of the grounded moon-boat stitched with veins of primordial plasma; the kite string that once connected the moon to the Earth now a muddy whisker drilling desperately for rubies. 
The beet was Rasputin's favorite vegetable. You could see it in his eyes. 
In Europe there is grown widely a large beet they call the mangel-wurzel. Perhaps it is mangel-wurzel that we see in Rasputin. Certainly there is mangel- wurzel in the music of Wagner, although it is another composer whose name 
begins, B-e-e-t——. 
Of course, there are white beets, beets that ooze sugar water instead of blood, but it is the red beet with which we are concerned; the variety that blushes and swells like a hemorrhoid, a hemorrhoid for which there is no cure. (Actually, there is one remedy: commission a potter to make you a ceramic asshole—and when you aren't sitting on it, you can use it as a bowl for borscht.) 
An old Ukrainian proverb warns, "A tale that begins with a beet will end with the devil." 
That is a risk we have to take. 
SEATTLE 
PRISCILLA LIVED IN A STUDIO APARTMENT. 
It was called a "studio" apartment because art is supposed to be glamorous and landlords have a vested interest in making us believe that artists prefer to sleep in their workrooms. Real artists almost never live in studio apartments. There isn't enough space, and the light is all wrong. Clerks live in studio apartments. File clerks, shop clerks, law clerks, community college students, elderly widows, and unmarried waitresses such as Priscilla. 
The building in which this particular studio apartment donned its false beret was built during the Great Depression. In Seattle there are many such buildings, anointing their bricks in the rain on densely populated hillsides between Lake Washington and Elliott Bay. Architecturally, its plain facade and straight lines echoed the gown Eleanor Roosevelt wore to the inaugural ball, while its interior walls still reproduced faithfully the hues of the split pea mush dished up in hundreds of soup kitchens. Over the years, the building had been so lived in that 
it had acquired a life of its own. Every toilet bowl gurgled like an Italian tenor with a mouthful of Lavoris, and the refrigerators made noises at night like buffalo grazing. 
Most older studio apartments—the ones in those buildings of New Deal brick— harbored odors as definitive as their colors and sounds, odors arrived at through generations of salmon cakes frying and broccoli boiling, but here was where Priscilla's apartment differed. It smelled of chemicals—less mephitic than sweet —and it was that smell that leaped to greet her, like a cooped-up pooch, when she let herself in on a weary midnight. 
The first thing she did after switching on the overhead light was to kick off her low-heeled waitress shoes. The second thing she did was to stub a toe on a table leg. The table, at which innumerable widows had sat down to canasta, shuddered paroxysmally, causing beakers of chemicals to rattle and sway. Fortunately, merely a few drops of their contents were lost. 
Priscilla flopped on the couch that was also her bed and massaged her feet, devoting special attention to the affronted toe. "Goddamnit," she said. "I'm such a klutz. I don't deserve to live in this world. I ought to be sent to one of those planets where there isn't any gravity." 
Earlier that evening, at the restaurant, she'd dropped a whole tray of cocktails. 
Inside her hose, her feet were as red as newborn mice. Steam seemed to rise from them. Mouse gas. She rubbed her feet until they felt comforted, then she rubbed her eyes. With a sleepy sigh, she let herself topple over on the couch, only to be startled by a shower of silver coins. The evening's tips had cascaded from her pockets and scattered about her head and body, the couch and floor. She watched a dime roll across the worn carpet as if heading for the exit. "Is this what they mean by runaway inflation?" she asked. "Come back here, you coward!" 
Sighing again, she arose and gathered the money. The few crumpled bills she stuffed in her purse, the coins she trickled into a dusty fishbowl on the dresser. The bowl was full to overflowing. "Tomorrow I'll open a bank account," she vowed. She had made that vow before. 
She removed her uniform—a blue sailor dress with piping of white and red—and tossed it in a corner. At the bathroom sink in her panty hose and bra, she washed 
her hair. She felt too tired to wash her hair, but it so reeked of cook grease and cigarette smoke that it competed with the resident smell of the apartment, and that would never do. There was no cap for the shampoo bottle. In feet, she couldn't remember when it—or the toothpaste—had last had a cap. "I could have sworn there was a cap on it when I bought it," she said. 
A number of short, curly hairs were stuck to the cake of soap. They made her wince. The hairs reminded her of an incident at work. She and Ricki usually took their breaks together. They would lock themselves in the employees' washroom and smoke a joint or blow a line of coke. Anything to lighten the load of the trays. Inevitably, Ricki made lewd suggestions. Sometimes, she'd casually lay her hands on Pris-cilla's body. Priscilla was not really offended. Ricki was one of the few people on the restaurant staff who could read something more intellectually demanding than a menu. Moreover, she was pretty, in a dank, faintly mustachioed way. Perhaps Priscilla was obliquely titillated by Ricki's advances. Usually, she brushed them off in a manner that made them both laugh. On this night, however, when, on the pretext of leveling a molehill that allegedly had bunched up in Priscil-la's panty hose, Ricki administered to the back of her upper thigh with lengthy and ever-widening caresses, Priscilla had snapped at her and punched her hard on the arm. At the end of the shift, Priscilla apologized. "I'm just tired," she told Ricki. "I'm truly goddamned exhausted." Ricki said that it was okay, but said it in a tone that intimated damage below the waterline of their friendship. Priscilla brooded over this as she plucked several pubes from the soap. 
The secondary function of a bathroom mirror is to measure murmurs in mental mud. Priscilla glanced at her "seismograph" and disliked the reading. She was as pallid as a Q-tip and as ready to unravel. Dropping the soap in the sink, she imposed a smile on her reflection. With a sudsy finger she pushed at the triangular tip of her crisp little corn chip of a nose. She winked each eye. Her eyes were equally enormous, equally violet, but the left eye winked smoothly while the right required effort and a scrunching of flesh. She tugged at her wet autumn-colored hair as if she were stopping a trolley. "You're still cute as a button," she told herself. "Of course, I've never seen a-cute button, but who am I to argue with the wisdom of the ages?" She puckered her bubble gum mouth until its exaggerated sensuality drew attention away from the blood-blue crescents beneath her eyes. "My bags may be packed, but I haven't left town. No wonder Ricki finds me irresistible. She's only human." 
Leaning her forehead against the scummy rim of the sink, Priscilla suddenly wept. She continued weeping until the heat of her tear water, the sheer velocity of its flow, finally obscured the already vague circumstances of its origins. Then, as memory after memory relinquished its sharp focus, and even fatigue and loneliness proved water soluble, she shut her tear ducts with an almost audible resolve. She blew her nose on a washcloth (she had been out of toilet tissue for a week), tossed her clammy hair, pulled on a lab coat over her underwear, and stepped into the living room cum bedroom cum laboratory where, over an assortment of burners, beakers, and bubbling glass tubing, she would toil with uncharacteristic fastidiousness until dawn. 
In the life of Priscilla, the genius waitress, this night was fairly routine. It differed significantly from every other night of her year in but one respect: at what she reckoned to be about five in the morning—her clock had run down and she hadn't gotten around to winding it—there was a soft rapping at her door. Since her neighborhood, Capitol Hill, was a high-crime district and since she had no wish to be interrupted by Ricki or some man she'd once slept with out of need and then forgotten, she'd chosen not to answer. At sunup, however, just prior to retiring for her customary and inadequate six hours of rest, she cracked the door to see whether her caller had left a note. She was puzzled to find on her doorsill a solitary lump of something, which, after cautious examination, she identified as a beet. 
NEW ORLEANS 
"WHAT IS THE HOUR, V'LU?" "Dee whut?" "The hour. What is the hour?" 
"Why, ma'am, dee hour is whut is on dee clock. Tween dee numbers." 
"V'lu!" said Madame Devalier. When Madame Devalier raised her voice, it was like Diamond Jim raising a poker pot. Even the termites in the foundation paid attention. "What time is it?" 
"It three o'clock, ma'am." 
Madame Devalier clasped the overbite of her bosom in disbelief. "Three o'clock in the morning!" 
"Three o'clock in dee night, ma'am. You knows dat in New Orleans it not morning 'til dee sun come up." V'lu laughed. Her laughter resembled the tinkle of a toy xylophone. "Sometime, when dee hurricane drops be passing 'round, it not git morning all day." 
"You are correct, as usual, cherie. But let us not be speaking of hurricane drops. Nothing goes out of this shop but perfume. And what perfume! Three o'clock in the morn—in the night! This boof has made me so dizzy I have lost all sense of time." She peeked into a vat of percolating petals. Inside the vat the scene resembled an Esther Williams water ballet filmed in the lagoons of hell. "This is the strongest 
jasmine I have ever smelled. It makes my head spin, V'lu. We must buy from that Jamaican again." 
The Hershey-skinned maid nodded. "Dat island nigger dee talk of dee Quarter, ma'am. He be selling flowers, he be singing songs, and all de time dose honey bees buzzing 'round he head. ..." 
"That is most unusual," Madame Devalier agreed. "Sometimes they circle him like a halo, and other times it's as if they form horns. He wears those bees like a crown, a living crown." 
"You think he wear dem bees to bed at night?" 
Madame Devalier wagged a finger at the young woman. The finger was plump, wrinkled, ringed, and tipped with a crimson nail. "If .you know what's good for you, you won't be concerning your pretty self with his habits in bed. Now fetch me some more alcohol, cher. We must dilute this boof before it starts a chain 
reaction and blows New Orleans into the Gulf. We have a jasmine Nagasaki cooking here!" 
Indeed, a solitary wino weaving down Royal Street was aroused into momentary sobriety by the olfactory force of the aroma that seeped through the closed shutters of the small shop. The man, a longtime resident of the area, stared at the faded sign—Parfumerie Devalier—and crossed himself before continuing on his way. 
For forty years, Madame Lily Devalier had kept the shop. Her father had kept it for fifty years before her. In its day, allegedly, some odd business had passed through its arched doorway. Moon medicine and jazz powders. Lucky root and come-together potent. Mojo cream and loa lotion. Hurricane drops, kill-me-not juice, coonass courting pomade and. a special "oil of midnight" that had nothing to do with overtime at the office. Among fashionable folk in the French Quarter, Madame D. was known as the Queen of the Good Smells. There was a time when certain people in the Quarter pronounced it "Spells." Nowadays, however, with much of the Quarter gone to seed—the shop along with it—Madame was trying to reattract some of the clientele she had lost to the large international fragrance houses, so she dealt in perfume and nothing but perfume. Or so she claimed. 
Under her mistress's watchful eye, V'lu poured molasses- 
distilled alcohol into a crock. The crock had been collecting the essential oil as it dripped through a filter tube attached to the steeping vat. The Jamaican jasmine was so pungent, however, that the diluting agent barely dulled its edge. 
"Ooh-la-la!" exclaimed Madame Devalier. She plopped down her pumpkin patch, her Spanish ballroom, her pagan idol of a body on a lime velvet love seat. "This boof may cause me to feint." 
"Ah gitting a sinful headache," V'lu complained. 
Out on Royal, following in the footsteps of the departed wino, a tall, lean black man in a greenish yellow skullcap paused before the shutters of the Parfumerie Devalier. He sniffed the air like a stag. He sniffed again. He clapped his hands in delight and cackled aloud. And shifting a bit on his head, emitting a sleepy whisper, his skullcap stirred its many little wings. 
Since there were no witnesses, it is impossible to say whether that man was responsible for the single garden-variety beet that V'lu discovered on her cot— tossed in through the open second-story window, perhaps—when she went to lay herself down that night (and thanks to some medication strongly resembling hurricane drops with which her employer had treated her headache, it was still night, wasn't it, V'lu?). 
PARIS 
IN THE CENTER OF A MARBLE-TOP DESK. Directly under a crystal chandelier, sitting alone on a silver tray, was a large, raw beet. The beet must have been out of the ground a week or more, for it had the ashen exterior of a cancer victim. Yet, when struck at a particular angle by a flicker of candlelight from the chandelier, its heart of wine-drenched velvet shone through. 
The desk was in an office, the office in a skyscraper. The skyscraper was like any other, a slender tower of steel and glass, totally without embellishment or dash. Even its height—a mere twenty-three stories—was unremarkable. Its lone distinguishing feature was the neighborhood from whose midst it rose. Across the street from its entrance was a monastery and a cathedral, the limestone steps of which had been worn as radiant as blue serge trousers by centuries of pious comings and goings. To the right of the building was a block of bicycle shops and cafes; to the left a slate-roofed hotel where, a few decades past, artists had slept and worked within the same four walls, never dreaming that their miserable circumstances might be romanticized in the "studio apartment" market of the future. Above the building, the sky recalled passages from Les Miserables, threadbare and gray. Below it (everything sits on something else), were the ruins of a brewery that once had been operated by monks from across the street. In the 1200s, Crusaders returning from Palestine in- 
troduced perfume to France, and after it achieved popularity there, the monks 
had made perfume as well as beer. Vestiges of the ancient perfumery could be explored in the basement of the skyscraper. In fact, the LeFever family, which built the skyscraper, had purchased the perfume business from the monastery in the seventeenth century and was still in the trade. 
On this day, already described as meteorologically evocative of Victor Hugo at his most dire, Claude LeFever had barged into the office of Marcel LeFever unannounced. Why not? They were blood relatives and both vice-presidents of the firm. Surely, formalities were unnecessary. Yet Marcel seemed annoyed. Perhaps it was because he was wearing his whale mask. 
Claude put his hands on his hips and stared at his cousin. "Thar she blows!" he yelled. 
"Kiss my ass," said Marcel, from inside the mask. 
"Forgive me but I would not quite know where to look for the ass of a fish." 
"A whale is not a fish, you fool." 
"Oh, yes." 
(Claude and Marcel LeFever were speaking in French. This simultaneous English translation is being beamed to the reader via literary satellite.) 
Holding degrees in both accounting and law, Claude made the financial decisions for the LeFever family. Marcel, who had grown up in the perfume labs, learning to think with his nose, was in charge of "creativity," a term that Claude did not completely comprehend, but which, to his credit, he recognized to be essential. If creativity was enhanced by pacing the executive suites in a papier-mache mask, it was all right with Claude, no matter how it frightened the secretaries. It was Marcel's habit of making large cash donations to ecology commandos intent upon sabotaging the whaling industry that bothered the frugal Claude. Claude was well aware of the previous importance to the perfume industry of ambergris, a substance secreted by temporarily infirm whales, but he was convinced that, petrochemical and coal tar fixatives were completely adequate substitutes. "Fish puke is a thing of the past," he'd tell Marcel. 
"A whale is a mammal, you idiot." 
"Oh, yes." 
In Marcel's office, as in Claude's next door, there was a floor-to-ceiling window from which one could look down on the cathedral spire. "We are closer to heaven than the monks," Claude was fond of saying. On this day, however, the sky, layered with thin altostratus clouds and smog, appeared to reflect human suffering and failed to awaken in Claude visions of paradise. It did, in its grim emaciation, remind him that he had skipped breakfast in order to be punctual at a board meeting that Marcel, it was probably just as well, had not attended. "Why don't you take that stupid thing off and let's go to lunch," Claude suggested. 
Through the eyeholes of the mask, Marcel continued to stare out the window. "Something rather interesting arrived in the morning mail," he said. 
"What was that?" 
"What else but a beet?" Marcel shifted his gaze from the window to the centerpiece of his desk. 
"Oh, yes. I wasn't going to mention the beet. In my years as your cousin and business associate, I have learned that it is frequently best to let sleeping dogs lie. Now that you've broached the subject, I must admit there is a beet on your desk, rather prominently displayed. Arrived in the mail, you say?" 
Without a trace of self-consciousness, Marcel lifted off the mask and placed it on the floor beside his chair, revealing an imposing Gallic nose, a gray-streaked spade of a beard, wet brown eyes, and black hair slicked back to resemble patent leather. Were it not that Claude's eyes were less moody, his hair more lightly greased, the cousins were identical, even to the cut of their pin-striped suits. Business competitors often referred to them as the LeFever twins. 
"It hadn't actually been posted, if that's what you mean. Nor was it wrapped. It arrived in its corporeal envelope, which is to say, its own body of beet flesh. It was merely sitting atop the basket of morning mail when I came in." 
"A token from an admirer. Some woman—or man—in the building. A beet is not entirely devoid of phallic connotations." 
"Claude, this is the third time since I've returned from America that there has been a beet with the morning mail." 
"You see? Someone's got it bad, you handsome devil, you. Or else it's a joke." 
"The receptionist claims that on all three occasions there was a strong, unpleasant odor in the foyer just before the beet was mysteriously delivered. ..." 
"A joke, as I said. An unpleasant odor in the LeFever Building? A practical joke." 
"Yes. And a trace of the odor still clings to the beet. It is something I've smelled before. Musk, but more intense. Claude, I encountered such a scent in the United States, but I can't seem to remember where and it is driving me coocoo. You know how it is with my nose." 
"Indeed I do," said Claude. "I would never have allowed LeFever to insure your nose with Lloyd's of London for a million francs were I not convinced of its infallibility. All the more reason to be unconcerned. Your snout will solve the puzzle even if your intellect should not. Meanwhile, this silly talk of beets is whetting my appetite. Let's get to a restaurant before the noon rush." He buttoned his jacket. After a short hesitation, Marcel rose and buttoned his. There was something about that morose sky scraped by the LeFever Building that indicated that protection against elements might be wise. "By the way," Claude added, "speaking of the United States, what do you hear from V'lu?" 
At the mention of V'lu, Marcel unbuttoned his jacket. He sat back down. He pulled the mask over his head and moaned as a whale might moan were it about to upchuck some ambergris. 
PART I THE HAIR AND THE BEAN 
 
THE CITADEL WAS DARK, and the heroes were sleeping. When they breathed, it sounded as if they were testing the air for dragon smoke. 
On their sofas of spice and feathers, the concubines also slept fretfully. In those days the Earth was still flat, and people dreamed often of falling over edges. 
Blacksmiths hammered the Edge Serpent on the anvils of their closed eyelids. Wheelwrights rolled it, tail in mouth, down the cart roads of their slumber. Cooks roasted it in dream pits, seamstresses sewed it to the badger hides that covered them, the court necromancer traced its contours in the constellation of straw on which he tossed. Only the babes in the nursery lay peacefully, passive even to the fleas that supped on their tenderness. 
King Alobar did not sleep at all. He was as awake as the guards at the gate. More awake, actually, for the guards mused dreamily about mead, boiled beets, and captive women as their eyes patroled the forested horizon, while the king was as conscious as an unsheathed knife; coldly conscious and warmly troubled. 
Beside him, inside the ermine blankets, his great hound, Mik, and his wife, Alma, snoozed the night away, oblivious to their lord's distress. Well, let them snore, for neither the dog's tongue nor the wife's could lap the furrows from his brow, although he had sent for Alma that evening mainly because of her tongue. Alma's mouth, freshly outlined with beet paint, was capable of locking him in a carnal embrace that while it endured forbade any thought of the coils beyond the brink. Alas, it could endure but for so long, and no sooner was Alma hiccupping the mushroom scent of his spurt than he was regretting his choice. He should have summoned Wren, his favorite wife, for though Wren lacked Alma's special sexual skills, she knew his heart. He could confide in Wren without fear that his disclosures would be woven into common gossip on the concubines' looms. 
Alobar's castle, which in fact was a simple fort of stone and wood surrounded by a fence of tree trunks, contained treasures, not the least of which was a slab of polished glass that had come all the way from Egypt to show the king his face. The concubines adored this magic glass, and Alobar, whose face was so obscured by whiskers that its reflection offered a minimum of contemplative reward, was content to leave it in their quarters, where they would spend hours each day gazing at the wonders that it reproduced. Once, a very young 
concubine named Frol had dropped the mirror, breaking off a corner of it. The council had wanted to banish her into the forest, where wolves or warriors from a neighboring domain might suck her bones, but Alobar had intervened, limiting her punishment to thirty lashes. Later, when her wounds had healed, she bore him fine twin sons. From that time on, however, the king visited the harem each new moon to make certain that the looking glass had not lost its abilities. 
Now, on this day, the new moon of the calendar part we know as September, when Alobar conducted his routine inspection, he looked into the mirror longer, more intently than usual. Something in the secrets and shadows of the imperfectly polished surface had caught his eye. He stared, and as he stared his pulse began to run away with itself. He carried the glass to an open window, where refracting sparks of sunshine enlivened its ground but refused to alter its message. "So soon?" he whispered, as he tilted the mirror. Another angle, the same result. Perhaps the glass is tricking me, he thought. Magic things are fond of deceptions. 
Although the day was rather balmy, he pulled up the hood of his rough linen cloak and, blushing like blood's rich uncle, 
thrust the mirror into the hands of the nearest concubine, who happened to be Frol. The other women gasped. They rushed to relieve her of the precious object. Alobar left the room. 
With some difficulty, for others tried to insist on accompanying him, the king excused himself from court and took the giant dog Mik for a romp outside the citadel gate. Circuitously, he made his way into the woods to a spring he knew. There, he fell to his knees and bent close to the water, as if to drink. Smothered under a swirl of cloudy mixtures, his reflection only spasmodically came into focus. Yet, among the bubbles, twigs, and jumbled particles of light and color, he saw it once more: a hair as white as the snow that a swan has flown over. It spiraled from his right temple. 
Undirected—and unencumbered—by thought, King Alobar's hand shot-.out as if to ward off an enemy's blow. He yanked the hair from its mooring, examined it as one might examine a killed snake, and, after glancing over his shoulder to assure that none save Mik was his witness, flicked it into the spring, in whose waters it twisted and twirled for a long while before sinking out of sight. 

Alma gnashed her semen-greased teeth in her sleep. Each distant owl note caused Mik to twitch. Between them, Alobar lay wide-eyed, his war-marked hands caressing the fur covers for comfort. It is with shame and fear that I rest tonight, thought the king. The way bewilderment lies upon me, I have no need of blanket. 
In Alobar's kingdom, a minute city-state, a tribe, if you will, it was the custom to put the king to death at the first sign of old age. Kings were permitted to rule only so long as they retained their strength and vigor. Regarding its rulers as semidivine—god-men upon whom the course of nature depended—the clan believed widespread catastrophes would result from the gradual enfeeblement of the ruler and the final extinction of his powers in death. The only way to avert those calamities was to kill the king as soon as he showed symptoms of decay, so that his soul might be transferred to a vigorous young successor before it had been impaired. One of the fatal signals of fading power was the king's incapacity to satisfy the sexual passions of his wives. Another was the debut of wrinkles or gray hairs, with their indiscreet announcement of decline. 
Heretofore, Alobar had not considered this tradition unfair. After all, were the king allowed to grow senile and ill, would not his weakness infect his domain, interfering with the multiplication of cattle, causing beet crops to rot in the fields, disabling the men in battle, and generally perpetuating disease, delirium, and infertility among those whom he ruled? And did not all intelligent peoples (which left out the Romans) hold this to be true? Why, in some nearby kingdoms, a slight blemish on the royal body such as the loss of a tooth was enough to bring about the death sentence. In Alobar's city, the execution was a ceremony of much dignity and aesthetic weight, the king's Number One wife bearing the responsibility for delivering to her husband's lips the poisoned egg. Among less civilized peoples in the region, the ruler was dispatched by the crude, though perfectly sufficient, process of being knocked on the head. 
Heretofore, the ritual of putting the king to death had seemed to Alobar natural, inevitable, and just. But tonight . . . tonight he cursed that cruelly traitorous strand, that hoary banderole of mortality that waved so thoughtlessly from an otherwise dark temple; that skinny, silver scroll upon which was written in letters bold enough for all of nature to read, an invitation to the burial mound. O most unwelcome hair! 
From the lemony southern islands to the mountainous haunts of trolls, there was no honest person who could call King Alobar a coward. Numerous times he had risked his life in combat, exhilarant the cry of his charge. And why not, what was there in death to fear? Death was this world's tribute and the other world's bequest. To shun it was to cheat both sides. In yanking out" the gray hair, he felt that he had betrayed his people, his gods—and himself. Himself? Self? What did that mean? Alobar pounded the pillow with his head, causing Mik to growl softly and Alma to flail both arms, although she did not surface from that sea without fish. 
At first light, ere a rooster had reached the doodle part of his cock-a-doodle-doo, Alobar shook Alma awake, ordering her back to the harem and requesting .that she send Wren in her stead. 
"What are you grinning at?" 
"My lord, I am merely happy to notice that you have regained your appetites." 
"What are you insinuating, woman?" 
"Nothing, my lord." 
"What?" He seized her by her yellow braids. 
"Don't be angry, sire. It is just that some of your wives grumble among themselves that you have neglected them of late." 
The king released her. Automatically, he raised his fist to the temple where the white hair had sprouted. Were another about to emerge, he would squash it in its follicle. 
"Have they . . . have they spoken of this to the council?" 
"Oh, no, my lord! It has not come to that. To tell the truth, I think they are merely peevish because you spend your best seed in that clumsy little cunt, Frol." 
In the depths of his tangled beard, Alobar managed half a smile. Young Frol was pregnant again, and from the size of her belly, there developed therein a second set of twins. 
Kissing had yet to be discovered in Europe, alas, so Alobar rubbed Alma's nose with his own. "My balls are so heavy I cannot leave the bed. Quickly, now. Fetch me Wren!" 
As soon as she had gone, he arose and forced open the massive oak window. While Mik licked his feet, he uttered a succession of prayers to the rapidly diminishing sparkle of the morning star. 
Those whom Alobar governed were a blond race, of such recent northern origin that snow-trolls and mystical red toadstools still figured in the tales the elders told around the fires, although the king himself, save for that morbid filament he had drowned in the spring, was on the dusky side. Wren, the daughter of a southern chieftain slain in battle by Alobar's predecessor, was even duskier. "The only dark meat in the king's larder," some of the warriors joked. Her coloration was one reason he favored her. More importantly, however, he loved her good sense, although in that place in that time, "good sense" was considered no more a virtue in a wife than "love" in a king. 
Alma's advance advertising must have been effective, for Wren arrived in the royal chamber already nude and lathered, wine in her cheeks. Thus, she was surprised to find her husband fully clothed, sitting with his hound on the great bear rug at the foot of his bed. 
"I—I—I am sorry, my lord," she stammered. The vintner in her veins pressed a more ruddy grape. "I was informed that you had summoned me." 
"That I did, dear Wren. Please come sit at my side." 
"Well, all right, of course. But first let me fetch my robe. I've left it in the anteroom." 
Smiling at her decorum, Alobar started to detain her. Even in his agitated mood, he could admire this walking flower of intelligent pink, this industry of honey and brine. But the image of the hair cast its shadow, and he allowed her to dress. He petted the dog. 
"So, you plucked it," she said, after he had related the events of the previous day. 
 
"Yes, I did." 
"Plucked it?" 
"Yes." 
"But why?" 
"I hoped that you could help me answer that." 
Wren shook her head of skunk-black curls. She appeared puzzled. "No, my lord, I think not. I have never met nor heard story of one who so resisted fate." 
"Surely I am not the first," said Alobar. "If so, I must be madman as well as coward." 
"Oh, neither, my Alobar." 
"Then what?" He watched dispassionately while Mik got up, yawned, stretched, and lumbered to a far corner of the room to relieve himself. "Tell me, Wren, what do you believe awaits you after you die?" 
"Awaits me? Me, Wren? I have never pondered what death might hold for this one person, born Wrenna of Pindus, now Wren, wife of Alobar. Death is not a personal matter, is it? It is the business of the clan. Our clan is responsible for maintaining the continuity of our race against the terrible whims of heavens and earth, and since the clan is weakened by the loss of one of its members, any death can be an ordeal for the whole." 
The king nodded. No gray hair nodded with him, though not having viewed himself that morning he could not be certain of that. "Which explains why our people hold such elaborate and energetic funerals. We entertain the immortals in order that they might be persuaded to help us recover the strength and unity stolen from us by death. However—and this occurred to me only last night as I lay abed undreaming— the clan usually succeeds in closing that breach death tore in its defenses, but what of the one who died? In some regions, they believe that he will pop up again in springtime like a crocus, but never have I observed such a blooming. In the past, I have thought: I shall entrust myself to whoever is more powerful in the next world, the gods or the demons. Yet now, my own speedy demise a rising possibility, I do not willingly submit to playing the part 
of prize in an otherworldly tug-of-war." "Is this blasphemy, my lord?" 
"I think not. Those who crafted me, be they gods or demons, crafted this mind that shapes my resistance to their schemes. Surely they were wise enough, at the wheel where I was thrown, to anticipate future resistance in the heart they were abuilding." Alobar looked at her hopefully. "Can you not agree?" 
Wren placed her own soft hand upon Mik's coat. At her touch, the huge hound seemed almost to purr. "I can neither agree nor disagree. I came here this dawn a quarter asleep, expecting to have my furrow plowed, only to have you sow in my mind such strange ideas." She gave her fingers to Mik so that he might affectionately wet them. 
"Perhaps," said Alobar, "I ought to turn to the necromancer for advice." "No, no, Alobar. Do not. Please do not." "Indeed, why?" "This is hard for me to express, my lord, but I shall try. 
The kings of your ancestors have been celebrated around many a bonfire. But celebrated for cunning and for brawn. Wisdom, true knowledge, has been the province of the necromancer alone. You have changed all that, and Noog does not like it. You must forgive what I am about to say, for it is fact. There are men inside these city walls more powerfully built than you, Alobar; more adept with the spear. Men who can run faster, hurl a stone farther, face an awesome enemy with an equal absence of trembling, and pacify a harem with as sturdy a shaft. But you, well, while I cannot imagine how you acquired it, you have a brain. Time and time again, you have demonstrated your unusual ability to see inside of men and to interpret the silent pleas they aim at the stars. In the past, many kings have ruled this people. You have governed them." 
"Governed?" "It is a Hellenic word—" "Hellenic." Alobar closed his eyes and thought of what he had heard of the 
Hellenic city-states far to the southeast, near the edge of the earth. How glorious they were rumored to have been, how wealthy and learned and proud of their arts. Long ago northern tribes, not unlike his ancestors, had sacked them. What good was righteous governing if rough people could come along at will and chop you up? 
"—a Hellenic word, meaning to exercise a directing influence. That you have done. The heroics of past rulers only kept your kingdom in a state of agitation. You have calmed it. And Noog resents you for that, because as a result of your reasonable leadership, the necromancer is less necessary and less admired." 
"I am not surprised. There is a limit to the admiration we may hold for a man who spends his waking hours poking the contents of chickens with a stick." 
"Divination has its worth." 
"Yes, and so, perhaps, does the elimination of time-trapped kings. Yet, rebellion stirs within me this daybreak. I appreciate your warning about Noog, Were I to tell him what I am about to tell you, dear Wren, I would be dining on bitter egg ere the moon is ripe. I have seen kings bite that egg, watched them turn green as ivy leaves and flap about the yard like freshly beheaded fowl. And all the while the populace on-looking as if it were at a bear-and-dog match. Now, in the eyes of the stars, men may be no more exalted than beasts, and kingly men no worthier than the wretched. Well, forgive me, perhaps the sap of that silver hair has made me drunk from inside my skull, but I am seized with desire to be something more. Something whose echo can drown out the rattle of death." 
As Wren blinked her bituminous lashes at his queer behavior, Alobar stood, disrobed, and turned slowly around and around before her like prime merchandise at a slave market. Save for the occasional phosphorus mark where some blade had stung him, his body was smooth and tan, braided with muscle, supple, quick; neither as massive nor as hairy as many warriors who had marched behind him. His chestnut mane was chopped an inch below the ears, his beard was shaggy and full. Less prominent than her own southern model (maybe there is simply more to whiff in tropic climes), his nose was banded at the bridge with a ribbon of scar tissue. His eyes, bright as torches in an ice cave, were so blue they seemed on certain days to bleed into the sky. Alobar's mouth, what could be glimpsed of it through the whiskers, was thinner than the meaty mouths of his fellows, and at the same time less crude; it reminded Wren of her late 
father's mouth, and she admired it most of all. On several occasions in his company, she had come within a pucker of discovering kissing. 
When he had completed his exhibition, he planted a palm against each of his jowls and said in a voice both defiant and shaky, "This man before you is part of the community, the race, and the species, yet is somehow separate from them. That notion shocks you, I can see. But, Wren, I cannot tolerate the passive obliteration of all that I am to myself. My deeds have not been so small that they will never be recalled around the fires, yet that foils to satisfy my longing. My life is not merely a public phenomenon, it is a solitary adventure as well." He slapped his thighs. "It is with difficulty that I imagine this familiar body gone cold. These limbs, this trunk, the heart that drums, they urge me, against all my training, to prevail over submission to the collective destiny." 
Wren's mouth opened as tentatively as a mollusk shell. 
"Vanity?" she asked. A wife, even in shock, she made certain that it was less an accusation than a query. "Vanity?" 
"Vanity? I am unsure. It feels different from vanity. If I be but vain, then the demons will kick my ghost from pit to pit. In my defense, I can say only this: I have fought for my people and would fight for them again, let them name the foe. But I am not ready to have them place the crown on another's noggin, though his be as yellow as sulfur and mine whiter than any winter's drift." 
For a long while, Wren sat quietly, poised as if she were a blood-drop on the point of a dagger. Then she said, "You seem to value my opinion, my lord. This then I say to you: It would be painful for me to pass you the poison. I would ache should I find your body still and icy, even though it meant that our clan might easier endure. Your words puzzle me no end. But I trust you as I have trusted no other, save my father. If survival through deception be your wish, then I shall endeavor to support the deceit. Most assuredly, I shall refrain from any mention of it." 
"It is no major deceit. Unless my parents lied, I have lived through but thirty- seven Feasts of Feasts. I remain young and able, no matter what that treacherous hair did shout." Again he slapped his thighs. Then, all at once, the bluster drained out of him. "Ah, but, Wren, you may not have long to guard our secret. I have observed the habits of hairs, and before many mornings there will arrive 
another as colorless as that last. And another and another, like doves at a roost. Every single day I would have to regard my head in the looking glass, yet I cannot retrieve the glass from the concubines without raising suspicion. You are more than loyal, but there is little use. ..." He slumped down on the fur beside her. 
"I will be your mirror," said Wren. 
He understood and, in gratitude, embraced her until at length he felt his humor return. A slow smile bent back his foliage. 
"I've a mind to lay you down and split you like a rack of mutton. What would you say to that?" 
"You know very well what I would say. I would say those half-formed, half- crazed words the she-panther speaks when in the delirium of her seasonal heat she is mounted by her mate." 
Alobar moved to shut the window against the beginning buzz and bustle of the city day. Then he thought better of it and left it wide. It would be to his advantage, he reasoned, should the populace overhear she-panther yowls emanating from his chamber. 
Days grew shorter. The citadel was hidden by morning fogs. Beets, resembling the hearts of gnomes, were piled in the storage cellars. Ducks lined up to buy their tickets to southern swamps. Mead was jugged. Blades and leathers oiled. Wolves made clouds when they sang at night. Maybe that was where the fogs came from. Everywhere there were sounds of husks cracking, virgins dancing, the rush of bees on last-minute shopping sprees, the roar of altars ablaze with some sacrifice. 
King Alobar was likewise undergoing a season change. True to her word, Wren was his mirror, and approximately once a week she discovered a white settler aspiring to colonize the shady hirsute shores. She drove it promptly out of the neighborhood. 
More pensive than ever, Alobar shared his thoughts with her. "I think that I am 
 
seeking something," he confessed once as they stood alone in the western watchtower, overseeing, from a bloodless distance, the butchering of skinny beef. "What I seek is neither spoils nor territory, new wives nor new glory, nor, for that matter, merely a lengthened life. What I seek never was, not on land or sea." 
What he sought was to become something singular out of his singular experience —and labor as she might, Wren could not understand. If the notion of an individual resisting death for his own sake was foreign to her (as indeed, it would have been to anyone in that milieu), the concept of the uniqueness of a single human life was alien to the point of babble. Preferring the chaos down in the cattle pens to her husband's god-offending nonsense, she shut it out entirely and yelled encouragement to the butchers. 
Yet, Wren served Alobar in ways beyond the call of duty. In an attempt to prove his stamina, the king set upon his harem like a starving rat let loose in a peach barrel. Night after night, he rooted, rolled, and reamed. He climbed delicately upon Frol's swollen belly. He left Juun and Helga complaining of soreness in their nether regions. He generated funky auroras around the bodies of Ruba and Mag. He gave Alma a taste of her own medicine. Each night, when he had done with one or the other of them, he would rub their noses, tug their blond braids, and send them back to their quarters to fetch Wren. While Alobar, exhausted, lay beside her panting and making imprudent comments, such as "Wives are wonderful, but why did I have to accumulate so many?", Wren would fake her lioness cries. Mornings, while he dreamed of the relative tranquility of war, she would fake them again. In time, the subterfuge shamed them both so deeply they could scarcely bear to look at each other. It was actually a relief when it was brought to an end. 
Noog the necromancer paid close attention to the king's activities. He had done so for years. He had chronicled Alobar's gradually declining sexual enthusiasm, so the desperation implicit in the sudden reversal was not lost on him. When he read verification of his suspicions in the intestinal texts of several hens, he decided to see for himself. 
It so happened that on the morning that Noog stole up to the royal window, after bribing a guard with a glass bead, Alobar and Wren were actually making love. 
 
Her phony demonstrations had excited him that dawn. After all, he cared for her above any other. So he had touched her stomach with uncommon tenderness, and soon her groans were being uttered in earnest. Disappointed, Noog was about to turn away when the magpie that rode upon his shoulder abruptly took flight and swooped into the king's chamber. Undetected as yet by the copulating couple, a long, curly hair as bright as an icicle had unfurled during the night in Alobar's beard. The magpie flew directly to the hair, pulled it free with its beak, and delivered it into the gizzard-stained hands of the magician. 
Following a full day of chanting, singing, and frenzied dancing by painted figures in animal suits, the execution took place at twilight. 
Awaiting his mortal exit, Alobar sat on a bronze throne wearing for the last time a thick crown of hammered gold. In his lap, he held the sacred turtle shell. The shell and crown rivaled the Egyptian looking glass in the hierarchy of the city's treasure trove. At precisely the moment that the sun's eye winked behind the western hills, Wren stepped from a tiny hut of pine boughs, constructed for the occasion, carrying on an ermine pillow the smoking egg. Without missing a cue, as if she had rehearsed for days, she dance-stepped thrice around the bonfire, then up to the throne. Supposedly, the egg had been laid by a viper, although Alobar suspected it was the product of Noog's magpie. 
In any case, Wren lifted it gracefully to Alobar's mouth, and as the singers fell silent and the dancers froze, he gulped it down. Presently he commenced to writhe. His face turned the color of the pine boughs. He toppled over and, green tongue lolling, thrashed about in the mud. Noog approached, recovered the crown that had spilled, and placed it upon the head of the young hero who had taken Alobar's place on the throne. Alobar kicked with both boots, then lay still. 
The new king flicked a dab of green foam off the throne. He raised his spear and smiled. Cheering broke out in the city, but it was shortlived because Mik lunged for the bronze chair and would have chewed off the occupant's leg had he not been restrained. No sooner was the hound muzzled than a new snarling began. This time it came from Frol, the fourteen-year-old concubine, who horrified the crowd by pulling the magic mirror from inside her maternity gown and smashing it against the logs of the bonfire. 
The burial mound was outside the city walls, in a field dotted with cow pies and large stones. The stones had been arranged geometrically in patterns that were supposed to mean something to the gods. Presumably, the cow pies had fallen at random, although then, as now, the division between what is random in nature and what is purposeful is extremely difficult to determine. 
Warriors carried Alobar's body to the mound's summit, where a shallow indentation had been dug. After the body was laid in the hole, the councilmen covered it with dirt. They sprinkled' mead on the grave. They chanted an incantation half as ancient as the stones in the field; words arranged, like the stones, in sensuous patterns; words that saber-toothed tigers may once have overheard. There were no tears, except the ones that Frol had shed back in the citadel yard. Death was not a weeping matter. The indentation in the mound-top represented the navel in the Great Belly. Alobar was back where he had begun. Birth and death were easy. It was life that was hard. 
Alobar was back where he had begun. But not for long. As soon as the funeral procession had wound, imitating the undulations of the Serpent, back through the gates of the city, Wren ran from the shadow of an upright stone and started frantically to dig him out. Only two feet of earth lay over him, so he was soon uncovered. She had a vessel of mead concealed in her cloak, part of which she used to clean dirt out of his mouth and nostrils. The remainder she poured down his throat. A potent beverage, the mead gradually counteracted the effects of the nightshade belladonna that she had placed in the egg. Since belladonna, in small amounts, will slow heartbeat, it had helped Alobar feign death. Wren also had stuffed the egg with algae that she had scooped off the surface of a stagnant pond. It was the algae that had given the green cast to his skin. 
There had been no fatal' poison in the egg Alobar devoured. Following a plan they had devised in the week between Noog's discovery and the execution ritual, Wren had secreted Noog's death egg in her bodice while she waited in the hut, substituting an egg filled with the algae and a nonlethal dose of nightshade belladonna. 
Alobar was considerably dazed, but as soon as he demonstrated to Wren's satisfaction that his breathing was of sufficient velocity to billow the sails of his soul, she left him. "I must return ere I am missed. I have to prepare myself to 
receive my new husband." The last she said matter-of-factly, but she rubbed his nose poignantly before fleeing. 
As dazed as he was, Alobar had the presence of mind to let his body roll down the slope of the burial mound, which was starting to be illuminated by a rising moon. He came to rest in shadow. He also came to rest in a more or less fresh cow pie—but he uttered no oath. / may be mad, he thought, but I prefer the shit of this world to whatever sweet ambrosias the next might offer. 
East was good enough for the morning star, it would be good enough for Alobar. He should not travel westward, for the Romans, with whom his people had traditionally skirmished, controlled the westlands, and for a long time now the Romans had been increasingly under the spell of some borrowed god who sounded like particularly bad news. Modern Romans insisted that there was only one god, a notion that struck Alobar as comically simplistic. Worse, this Semitic deity was reputed to be jealous (who was there to be jealous of if there were no other gods?), vindictive, and altogether foul-tempered. If you didn't serve the nasty fellow, the Romans would burn your house down. If you did serve him, you were called a Christian and got to burn other people's houses down. There was a long list of enjoyable things Christians could not do, however, including keeping more than one wife. "Come to think of it," mused Alobar, "that might not be such a bad idea." 
Ah, but Christians were meddlers, and a man on the run from death, duty, and who knew what else? was a man who didn't need meddling with. It was possible that he had insulted quite a few deities of his own acquaintance, so he didn't relish some aggressive foreign hothead getting in the act. Christians populated the south as well as the west, while up north the pebbles lay with their faces already in snow, and Alobar had neither furs nor spear. It was settled. He would journey into that east whose pinchers had so recently released October's buoyant moon. 
When the last spasm of nausea had subsided, when all traces of dirt and drug had washed away and his blood flowed melodious and clear, he stood, stretched, gathered his burial wraps about him, and set off at a trot toward the east—and the multiplying unknown. 

As he trotted, he could hear in the distance the drunken din of the city, where his people simultaneously lamented the broken mirror and celebrated their rescue from feebleness and decay. Then he turned upwind, and the night was suddenly quiet. He paused to look back. The red glow of torches and bonfires caused the city to resemble a miniature sun a-setting. Let it set, he thought. A fresh one will rise in the east. Nevertheless, there were pangs in his heart. Mixed in that caldron of sound that had just faded might have been the feline wails of Wren, who, no doubt, lay with the new ruler beneath his ermine covers. Did Mik snore at the foot of the bed? he wondered. All of Alobar's wives belonged to his successor, if he wanted them, but Mik was eternally Alobar's and would have been buried with him had he not demanded, prior to his "execution," that the hound be spared. "I would vow to retrieve you, Mik," whispered the former king, "but as sorely as I miss you, I will not be back. Not one companion from my reign will I ever see again." 
He was quickly to be proven wrong. 
He was now at the threshold of the dark forest. Unarmed, he dare not venture deep inside lest enterprising beasts process his flesh into sausage cakes and brew their winter's ale from his blood. Therefore, his plan was to lie down just inside the tree line and sleep until daybreak. At earliest light he would strike out, attempting to transverse the wood before it again grew black. Having a terrible thirst, however, a need to rinse his mouth of the accumulated residue of mead, mud and egg surprise, he decided to first go in as far as the spring and drink. Then he would retire to a resting place less convenient to the wolf kitchens. 
The spring bubbled in a little glade, a clearing lit like an altar by the ever- ceremonious moon. So bright was the glade that Alobar could watch his shadow slide along the promenade of moss and kneel with him to drink. "Me and my shadow," he said wistfully, anticipating the popular song by a thousand years. "Me and my—" What was that? His shadow had attracted a second, a companion, shadow, slightly smaller than itself though nonetheless human in shape. If his shadow was no longer alone, did that mean that he, too, enjoyed companionship? And if his shadow's shadow friend aimed a shadow spear, could Alobar conclude that a spear was pointed at him, as well? 
Still on his knees, Alobar whirled and lunged at the place where the shadow had 

led him to expect he would find legs. Yes, those were legs he grabbed! He yanked them hard, hoping to upset the body they supported before it could shove a blade through one rack of his rib cage and out the other. He felt the spear point graze first his cheek and then his shoulder, as the being who wielded it crashed down on top of him. Alobar no longer knew how the shadows were behaving, but as for himself, there was an attacker straddling his head. Disgust mingled with fear as he labored to withdraw his face from his adversary's crotch. In the struggle, some part of him, most likely his nose, fired a message to his brain. The message contained a single word: female! 
Alobar pulled himself free with such force that he fell backward into the spring. When he surfaced, spewing and sputtering, dead leaves and the addresses of a dozen hibernating frogs strewn throughout his beard, he found himself contemplating a spear tip again. This time, however, he could see the face of his assailant, and while he was no longer surprised that it was a woman, he was astonished that the woman was Frol. 
Alobar's amazement was mild compared to Frol's. When she realized that she had tried to puncture her recently executed lord and husband, her young mind reeled at the potential redundancy, and she fainted straight away. Alobar revived her with water that he wrung from his clothing, and they spent a largely incoherent hour sorting things out. 
Following her destruction of the prized mirror, only the intervention of the new king had prevented the clan from ripping Frol to shreds. It seemed the king desired to honor Alobar's precedence, desired to govern rather than merely rule (Alobar detected the influence of Wren), so he urged compassion, as he believed Alobar would have done, and reduced Frol's sentence to banishment. Moreover, as Frol was driven from the city in a blizzard of curses, his highness handed her his own spear, with which she might at least delay the dinner of the bears (Alobar could picture Wren whispering instructions in the freshly royal ear). 
Five minutes or less was required by Frol to explain her presence in the forest. The remainder of the hour was taken up by Alobar's protests that he was not a specter. Slow to be convinced, Frol accepted Alobar's concreteness only after he produced the terminus of his urinary network and arced a stream in front of her. "Everyone knows that ghosts don't piss!" he exclaimed, and although she was unacquainted with that particular wisdom, it sounded too logical to be denied. 

Upon those travelers who make their way without maps or guides, there breaks a wave of exhilaration with each unexpected change of plans. This exhilaration is not a whore who can be bought with money nor a neighborhood beauty who may be wooed. She (to persist in personifying the sensation as female) is a wild and sea-eyed undine, the darling daughter of adventure, the sister of risk, and it is for her rare and always ephemeral embrace, the temporary pressure she exerts on the membrane of ecstasy, that many men leave home. Alobar was presently in her arms, having made a sudden shift in direction due to Frol's heavy load—she was timed to give birth on the next full moon—and was now bearing west, after all, seeking a nearby haven where Frol might deliver, rather than the distant edge where he might test fate. On the surface, it seemed a less adventurous choice, yet the prospect of raising a family in Christiandom was far more challenging to Alobar than any potential combat with man or monster, and the very spontaneity of the decision inflated his humor. Thus, even though his back now was turned to the allure of 
the morning star, even though a stout breeze flattened his beard against his Adam's apple, even though his damp clothing clung to him like frost, he whistled from stump to rock as if he were a teakettle leading the pack in the annual pot- and-pan cross-country marathon. 
Three days later, still whistling, pulling a stumble-footed Frol along, he entered the village of Aelfric. Abruptly the whistling stopped. 
Aelfric was a huddle of hovels, an ugly little settlement of thatch and mud in which dwelt the peasants who farmed the manor of Lord Aelfric, whose imposing manor house loomed over the village, although it stood a quarter-mile away. Alobar's blue eyes scrutinized the rude peasant houses and the peasants themselves, bent and beat from a crowded calendar of toil; he examined the granite turrets of the manor house, surveyed the surrounding fields and woods. His toes curled nervously in his boots, but just when they were about to uncoil and propel him toward a scenic bypass of downtown Aelfric, his gaze settled on Frol's belly. He calmed his toes. He took Frol's hand. "Here we shall build our muddy nest," he said. 
The peasants received them warmly. Naturally, they were suspicious, but newly baptized, they were sensitive to the responsibilities of Christian charity. 
Recognizing in Alobar the mien of a warrior, they suggested that his proper employment would be as a vassal in the military service of Lord Aelfric. They were both amazed and gladdened when the stranger insisted on remaining among them. They could always use another strong back in the pitiless acres of Aelfric. 
For his part, Alobar knew all too well how life would be in the manor house. He had been a mighty warrior, he had been an exalted king. Now it amused him to see what kind of serf he would make. Besides, for some reason—perhaps it was connected to the trauma of the white hair—he had grown tired of violence. "I sense that there are different sorts of battles to be fought," he told Frol, "and I shall fight them for myself, not Lord Aelfric." 
Despite his reputation, Alobar had little fear of recognition. Aelfric was a mere forty miles west of his former castle, but there was not a single serf who had traveled more than ten miles from his or her birthplace. Once his beard was shaved, his hands callused, his body stooped to the processing of the harvest, not even the most cosmopolitan of the lord's knights would be able to identify him. Moreover, he was "dead." "Long live death," whistled Alobar as he winnowed grain from chaff. 
To Frol, Aelfric presented a more difficult challenge. Pregnancy afforded a peasant woman no relief from work, not even in its final hours. Softened by the sables and scented pillows of the harem, Frol fainted two days in a row while pounding flax with heavy scrutchers. Thereafter, she was dispatched each dawn to the manor house, where she waited upon ladies. Ever spunky, Frol served without complaint, and the ladies soon learned not to trust her with breakables. 
One night in bed, Alobar removed Frol's hands from his waist and lifted them temporarily above the rough blankets. Examining her stubby fingers, he said, "Here is where glassware comes to die." 
They fell asleep smiling. It is to erase the fixed smiles of sleeping couples that Satan trained roosters to crow at five in the morning. 
Among the observations made by Alobar during his first few weeks as a citizen of Aelfric were these: 

(1) "Here the people bury their dead not in communal mounds but in individual graves. Now that I have come to regard death as a private challenge rather than as a social phenomenon to be exploited—once it has occurred—for the common good, as my clan regards it, I wonder if Christianity may not have something in its favor, after all." 
(2) "The priest of the manor reminds me to no end of Noog. He is absorbed with his position on the estate and manipulates everyone, lord, lady, and serf, alike, to better his station and to tighten the Church's grip on the society. There resides, however, in a hut of sticks beyond the fringe of the village, another kind of priest, a wise old man called a shaman. The shaman lives outside the social system, refusing to have any part of it. Yet, he seems to connect the populace 
to the heavens and the earth far more directly than the priest. Perhaps that is why the priest despises him." 
(3) "The main vegetable consumed in Aelfric is the turnip. With my clan it was the beet. Could that explain why these people are so docile and mine so fierce?" 
More than once during his first year in Aelfric did ex-king Alobar reconsider applying for a vassalic position with the lord of the manor. The life of the peasants was brutally hard. In return for the lord's protection, they had to work for a prescribed number of days a week on his lands. In the few remaining hours, they plowed, seeded, and harvested their own meager holdings and performed an endless succession of chores, such as chopping wood, butchering game, shearing sheep, digging ditches, drawing water, mending roads, carting manure, and building carts in which to cart still more. In the quiet ache of evening, Alobar listened to his calluses grow, a sound that merged in his ear with the echo of the switch on the ox's hide. 
By then, gray had overtaken one of every four hairs on his head, and some nights he would pluck those pale hairs as if they were petals, saying to Frol, "If I wasn't elderly when our clan decreed I was, I soon will be. Harsh labor pierces the rosy membrane of youth and lets the shriveling brine seep in." 
Nevertheless, the work-worn months held satisfactions. The novelty of one wife continued to fascinate Alobar. Frol remained as devoted as when he was her 

sovereign, and she showed signs of maturing into a woman as sexually adept as Alma and only slightly less intelligent than Wren. With her company he was content, and when she issued twins, one of each gender, that first November, a new dimension was added to his life. Back in his home city, his offspring had been raised communally in a nursery adjoining the harem. The nursery was a female province, as foreign to his bootsteps as the serpent-seared cliffy of the edge. Now he discovered children, and the discovery blew blasts of sugar into every chamber of his heart. 
When Alobar had enough energy, he cataloged his experiences and observations and tried to profit from them, to what end he could not say. Because Christianity emphasized the value of the individual, in the Roman scheme every person had his or her place. In the frame of mind in which he'd been since first he was violated by the hair, this concept appealed to him, providing food for mental mastication. 
The peasants were a dull lot, by and large, but they had exhibited extraordinary kindness in helping the strangers set up housekeeping in a flea-bitten cottage with a dirt floor. Their friendliness increased after first Frol (out of conviction) and then Alobar (as a strategic maneuver) agreed to be baptized in the name of their exclusive god. However, certain activities were conducted in the village from which Alobar and his family were barred. These activities seemed to be social in nature, generally merry, and coincided with seasonal observances. 
The traditional winter festival, which among Alobar's folk as well as many other Europeans was celebrated during the twelve days that separated the end of the lunar year (353 days long) from the end of the longer solar year (365 days), and whose purpose it was to equalize the two different celestial years, had been appropriated by the Christians and transformed into a religious holiday called "Christmas." As far as Alobar could determine, Christmas was the same winter festival of yore, except that the profound emotionalism annually precipitated by moon/sun influences the priest here attributed to the natal anniversary of "Christ," a Semitic man-god whose exact relationship to the One God Alobar could never quite get straight. 
On their first Christmas Day in Aelfric, Frol and Alobar were obliged to spend the entire morning in church, listening to sermons and hymns in a language they could barely understand. Later in the day, they tramped through the snow to the manor house, where the lord served up a mammoth meal for all his serfs. At 
dusk, Frol and Alobar returned to their cottage to sleep off the food and drink, but long after their candles had been extinguished, lights flickered in the homes of others, as well as in the community lodge, from which laughter and song poured most of the night. The songs that Alobar overheard were most unlike hymns, and the whoops and guffaws that mixed in the clear, frosty air were most unlike prayers, although for his part, Alobar deemed them every bit as godly. The revelry continued nightly until the sixth day of January, the termination of the twelve-day "lost" or supplementary month. 
Since there were similar goings-on at the time of the old spring fertility festival —the priest called it "Easter"—and during the feast of the dead in late October —"All Saint's Day," according to the Christians; since he and Frol, as newcomers, were never invited; and since the priest steered clear of the merrymaking while the shaman, in a horny mask, occasionally dropped by, Alobar was to conclude that for all their pious Christian convictions the peasants still clung to the pagan customs that were their archaic heritage. 
His conclusion was correct, although a night was fast a-coming when he would wish he was mistaken. 
His lips curled over the rim of a cider mug, Alobar sat before the hearth. Outdoors the snow was piled halfway to the Big Dipper, and the earth lay as passive as an eyeless potato. More snow was failing, and Alobar praised each and every flake. Onward, snow! The subdued landscape awaits your crystal victory! Although the peasant women busied themselves at the cookpot, the spinning wheel, and the loom, weather had curtailed their husbands' labors, and for this respite Alobar thanked the new god, the old gods, the morning star, and the snow itself, for the snow seemed energized and awake in a universe that slumbered like a cadaver. 
In front of the crackling fire, Alobar dandled his babies on his knees and at last gave full attention to his lot. How he welcomed this opportunity for uninterrupted thought! Externally and internally, his life had changed dramatically since that silver hair had flagged him down, and though the next day was Christmas, it was not upon the pigs roasting in Lord Aelfric's ovens nor the epiphanies marinating in the prayer book of the priest that he dwelled, but upon his path from kingship to peasantry and upon what future twists that road 

might take. A life in progress. A thing to behold. 
So lost in reverie was he that when there came a loud banging at the door, he let both his mug and his infants drop to the hearth. The mug rolled into the flames, but the twins, having slightly less rounded contours, stayed where they fell. 
Fro! unlatched the door, and out of the dark trooped a snow-dusted band of their neighbors, faces scarlet from cold and strong drink. The villagers embraced them both, not a little lasciviously, and placed wreaths of holly and cedar about their necks. They bade Alobar and Frol accompany them to the community lodge. 
Frol was unnerved by the boisterousness of the peasants, normally so sober and staid, but Alobar whispered, "Let us join them. More than a year has passed. This is our second Christmas in Aelfric, and finally we've been judged trustworthy to participate in their seasonal fun. By the tone of it, we are about to be included in ceremonies more ancient, more unrestrained, and, I suspect, more heartfelt than any we will share on the morrow." 
The entrance to the hall was decorated to resemble the face of a beast, eyes bulging and burning (lanterns inside goat skins), teeth of thin wooden slats. They entered through the mouth of the creature, walking over blood-drenched hides that represented the great animal's tongue—and constituted, perhaps, the original red carpet. Inside, the low rafter beams were luxuriously festooned with coniferous boughs, holly, and running cedar, although damp logs smoldering in the fireplace had smoked up the place to the extent that details of the greenery were barely discernible. It didn't matter, for there could be no mistaking the kegs of cider that rose majestically in the smoke. Frol and Alobar let their cups be filled repeatedly, though in fact most of the liquid was speedily sloshed out by the jostling of fellow citizens as they coaxed the newcomers to join with them in bawdy songs. Frol strained to learn each lyrical indecency, but Alobar simply sang over and over again the only song he knew or had ever known, an epic about battles that were fought long, long ago, back before the morning star impregnated the She-Bear who gave birth to beets. 
String and wind instruments were being played inexpertly. Soon, dancing commenced. Assisted by the chemistry of the cider, Alobar and Frol relaxed and slipped into the noisy spirit of things. Frol danced with every clodhopper who asked, while Alobar munched sausages and black puddings and played at dice and cards. 
Shortly before midnight, as if by signal, the singing, dancing, and games suddenly stopped. Thinking the party over, Alobar and Frol made to gather their wraps and sleeping babies and go home, but they were told that if they left they would miss the highlight of the season. At that moment, two peasant women, decked out in their finest embroidery, emerged from the greenery that was piled behind the cider kegs. They were carrying a board upon which was balanced a many-layered cake. A table had been moved into the center of the lodge, and upon it the cake was set. The way the men moved in to surround the cake you would have thought a naked maiden was about to jump out of it, but that particular advancement in the baker's art was nine or ten centuries away. 
One of the women took a knife from her fancy apron and began to slice the confection. When it was divided to her satisfaction, the other wife served. One piece at a time was passed out, to men only. When all the males, including Alobar, had been served, they began to eat their slices, chewing very slowly, watching carefully all the while the chew motions of their companions; the slow, muscular rise and fall of jaws. Except for the soft chewing, the hall had grown as silent as the gills of a fossil. 
The cake was so moist and sweet that Alobar would have been inclined to compliment the chefs, would not the faintest tribute have resounded in the still of the lodge like a falling tree. When he bit into something small and hard, a something that sent a shock of pure hot pain vibrating along the length of a neural wire, he dared not cry out, because if a compliment must be suppressed, then doubly so a complaint. Not wishing to hurt the feelings of the bakers, Alobar removed the object from his mouth as inconspicuously as possible, a gesture doomed to failure, for every smoke-reddened eye in the room was upon him. 
Upon examination, the object proved to be easily identifiable, and for all the temporary distress it caused his molar, rather unobjectionable. Since everyone was looking anyway, Alobar, somewhat colored by embarrassment, held it aloft for them to see. "Just a bean," he said shyly. Before the word was fully spoken, a huge roar went up in the lodge. "The bean! The bean! The bean! The bean!" they cried, men and women together, and the villagers advanced on him, slapping his back, mussing his hair, hugging him, and squeezing his private parts. A wooden chair, a rickety imitation of a throne, was fetched and placed beneath a rack of antlers recently nailed to the wall. Alobar was led to the throne and made to sit on it, whereupon, amidst a deafening cacophony of whoops and hollers, belly 
laughs and sniggers, purposeful belches and equally intentional farts, a lopsided crown of mistletoe was laid atop his head. 
When the crowd began addressing him as "king," Alobar gasped. His heart swung off its pendulum, and his blue eyes stiffened like the ponds of December in a bowel-loosening, knee-locking, cider-evaporating attack of deja vu. 
"Viva Fabarum Rex!" he seemed to hear them shout, as if through curtains of snow and cake. "Viva Fabarum Rex! Long live the King of the Bean!" 
According to custom, the King of the Bean had absolute license. For twelve days following his chance selection, he reigned supreme, ordering his fellows about and indulging his passions. He was allowed to wallow in every pleasure, however sinful. No door nor bed was barred to him. At any hour, he might enter another's house to eat and drink his fill. If he wanted a neighbor's wife, she was his; likewise any daughter. Obscene behavior, such as urinating on the altar of the church, not only was permitted, it was encouraged. Wherever he went, whatever he did, the Bean King was attended by a rowdy entourage, adjusting his mock crown (so that it always sat askew), pulling at his mock robes (so that they revealed his buttocks), plying him with song and cider, cheering him, jeering him, egging him on. 
When this was explained to Alobar, he thought, Well, if they desire a king, how fitting it be me. This kingship comes to me by sheer fortune, but I daresay none other is more experienced in the role. True, I had planned to give up these wintry days to contemplation, but it is festival time, and I could use some fun. Frol has satisfied me plenty, but I confess that there be three or four skirts hereabout I would not mind lifting. They wish a monarch, do they? Little do they realize that their bean, in its vegetable wisdom, has selected the one man suited for the job. Haw haw. 
Then the peasants explained to him the rest of the custom. At the end of his twelve-day rule, on the Day of the Epiphany, the usual restraints of law and morality were abruptly restored. Still wearing his crooked crown, the King of the Bean was led to a certain meadow outside the village, where his throat was cut. 
"Who's there?" "Alobar. From the village. I must speak with you. Let me in." Go away. "No! I cannot go away. I am the King of the Bean." 
Inside the hut there was a laugh, or the ancient animal ancestor of a laugh; a cackle wound like prickly yarn around the wild spindle in the throat of a fox. "You have strayed from your kingdom, Your Majesty. I am not subject to your authority. In fact, go frig yourself." 
Alobar leaned against the shaman's door. Never had he been so near to weeping. If only he had his beard back so that it might sop up the tears. "You don't understand. I am not playing games. I am not one of the peasants. I am a king." 
"So you informed me. King of the Bean. Go swill another cup of cider, Your Highness. And don't forget to ask the priest for forgiveness when you kneel in church on the morrow." 
Alobar bashed the door down with one furious lunge. He careened inside, sending broken sticks flying, and lifted the shaman from his mattress. Without a painted deer skull over his head, the old man did not seem so formidable. Alobar shook him until his various necklaces of various teeth chattered like a flock of enamel jays. 
"All right, all right," said the shaman. "What are you seeking, information or wisdom?" 
"Er . . . why ... uh ... wisdom!" "In that case, you're out of luck. Wisdom takes a long time, and you're going to 
be dead in twelve days." 
Alobar threw the shaman onto his tick. "No, I am not!" he screamed, stamping his feet. "No, I am not!" 
"Oh? You're not? But you are 'king' and thus condemned." The shaman grinned like a weasel running errands for the moon. 
"I am twice king and twice condemned—and I am sick and tired of it. First a hair and then a bean. If death wants me, let him ride up on a pale mount, ashes in his mouth, ice in his testicles; let him swing a scythe and make horrible noises, let him come for me in person, not send some hair, some fucking little black bean baked in a goody by mutton-butt peasant wives. Even then I might not go. Frankly, I do not like the way death does business." 
A glimmer of interest showed in the shaman's eyes. He raised himself on his knobby hips. He glanced at the snow that was sifting over the contents of his hut. "Do you feel a bit of a draft? Here, help me hang this skin over the door. Then I'll brew us some mushroom tea, and we can discuss your problem." 
While his host hunkered over the diminutive adobe hearth, Alobar sniffed at the various braids of dried vegetable matter that hung against the walls, each broadcasting a different version of internal conditions within the plant kingdom, and he fingered the bones, fangs, and snail shells that, like chimes to be rung by the shaman's heavy breathing, dangled from the ceiling. Each fragment of flora and fauna had been removed from its original context and juxtaposed incongruously, yet each seemed perfectly in place. The party in Alobar's head, which agitation and anxiety were throwing, now was crashed by a notion: existence can be rearranged. Torn between showing this thought to the door or seating it in a place of honor, Alobar was relieved of the dilemma by a steaming teacup, shoved into his grasp. 
The shaman sipped ritualistically. Alobar told his whole story. When only the dregs were left of the one's tea and the other's tale, the shaman took several short pieces of string from his pocket and began to knot them together, mumbling all the while. "In my net," he mumbled, "I bind the sobs of the dark ice cracking. In my net I bind the ax's response to the pinecone. I bind the larva's curved belly. I bind the hole in the sky where the comets escape. I bind the roots of the rainbow and the flight of the alder." He went on and on in that manner—"My net binds the hornet's deaf grandmother" —until Alobar was ready to grab him and give him another shaking. 
Just as Alobar reached the end of his patience, the shaman unclasped his hands, revealing the pieces of string, which in the knotting, had turned into a delicate violet, its petals the color of love bites on a collarbone. Alobar reached for the flower, but it burst into flame and was consumed in the shaman's fingers without burning them. It was Alobar's turn to mumble. "In the future I shall be more 
careful about whose door I knock down," he said, mopping up with his sleeve the tea he had spilled in his astonishment. 
The shaman laughed. "Don't pay any attention to that old magic," he said. "It used to be powerful, but now it is only the pastime of a few crazy old farts who remember how to talk with weeds." Alobar sought to protest, but the shaman interrupted. "Man is turning away from the plants and animals," he said. "Slowly he is breaking his bond with them. Someday he will have to reestablish contact, if the universe is to survive. For now, however, it is probably best that he set out on his own in his new direction." 
"How so?" 
"A salamander can be only a salamander, an elk an elk, and a bush a bush. True, a bush is complete in its bushness, yet its limits, while not nearly so severe as some foolish men would believe, are fairly obvious. The peasants of Aelfric are like bushes, like salamanders. They were born one thing and will die one thing. But you . . . you have already been a warrior, a king, and a serf, and from the looks of it, you aren't through yet. Thus, you have learned the secret of the new direction. That is: a man can be many things. Maybe anything. 
"In the past, there was little separation between the lives of plants and animals and the lives of men. Nowadays, there are men who practice separation, not only from the creatures but from other men. The Romans with their Christianity have promoted the idea of the human individual. But you are neither Roman nor Christian, and you are no less smitten, so perhaps the spirit is in the air. The Romans encourage individualism, but they maintain rigid controls. Sooner or later, men will come along whose belief in the supremacy of the exceptional, extraordinary, isolated individual will cause them to declare themselves exempt from controls. In their uniqueness, they will not hesitate to defy accepted standards. Oh, these men will give Rome—and the Romes that shall follow Rome—a very large headache. You, Alobar, I suspect, are among the first of such men. 
"No, no, do not object. I can tell that my words both delight and excite you." 
It was true. And in his delightment and excitement, Alobar had let his tea grow cold, so the shaman warmed his cup. 
"Were you an ordinary peasant, I would dazzle you with another trick or two; I'd 
berate you and comfort you and send you back to Aelfric to face your death without alarm. Most of the peasants are content to die. For them, death means the cessation of toil. At last they can drop their soiled and battered bodies and enter the dimension of pure spirit. Plants and animals are even more comfortable with death. It is the natural end. But man by his nature is an unnatural animal. If any creature stands a chance of defeating death, it is man. 
"If you were an ordinary serf, I would send you back to Aelfric to assist your neighbors in the public purification they undergo at the end of the old year and the beginning of the new, to help them mock the things they love best in order that they might revere them the more. I'd send you back to wear the sacred mistletoe, to be King of the Bean, to be sacrificed to the good old goddess of agriculture. Instead, I encourage you to ride this strange wind that is blowing through you; to ride it to wherever it will carry you." 
"But which way shall I go?" 
"That is between you and the wind. You seem to be searching for a kind of immortality. With that I cannot help you. In the realms that I inhabit, death is a companion. One does not quarrel with one's friend. If you desire to meet masters with power over death, I suggest you travel to the distant east." 
"As far as Hellas?" "Far, far beyond Hellas." 
"To Egypt, then?" In Alobar's mind, Egypt, with its confounding mirrors, was the end of the trolley line. 
"As far as Egypt is, you must go three times that far." 
"Three times farther than Egypt? Are you trying to trick me? I would fall over the edge of the earth!" 
The shaman snorted with laughter. "Alobar. The earth does not have an edge." 
It was Alobar's turn to laugh. He thought he might be in the company of a crazy old fart, after all. "What utter nonsense," he declared. 
"You are a free and special man, Alobar. Therefore I'm going to let you in on a 
little secret. Listen. I converse regularly with the birds and the fish. And the birds and the fish have assured me many times that there isn't any edge. We live on a ball, Alobar. We do. Keep this quiet: the world is round." 
So heady was the idea that Alobar felt feint. He gulped his tea and gazed into the shaman's eyes—eyes as shiny and black as the bean in the cake—to ascertain that he was not being joshed. When he was convinced of the shaman's sincerity, he stood and gathered his hides about him. "I suppose I should be off then." 
"I suppose you should." 
"I surmise that several Feasts of Feasts will be consumed ere I am returned. However, I should be pleased to build you a strong new door when next I pass this way." 
"You plan to return, then?" 
"If the world be round, I can scarcely help it." He chuckled. "Someday, I should like to mingle with my clan again, even if I must disguise myself to do so." 
The shaman shook his head. "I have it on good authority that Lord Aelfric's men are going to attack your old citadel as soon as the roads are dry in spring. They will kill all who resist and baptize the remainder. Long before you return—if you return—the independent city you once ruled will be but another Roman outpost on the frontiers of the Holy Empire." 
Alobar smacked his palm with his fist. "Then I must warn the clan! I'll organize a defense! Maybe we'll attack first! By the golden whiskers of the morning star, we'll show those turnip eaters what battle's about! They'll need more than one god to save their asses ere I and my boys are through, blah blah blah ..." 
"Too late, Alobar, too late." As if to somehow illustrate his point, the shaman tore a badger mask from the wall and tossed it into the fire. "The foe is not merely Lord Aelfric but the whole of the empire. It is too large, too entrenched, has too much momentum. The world is changing, Alobar." He gestured at the burning mask. "Don't waste your life trying to hold back the tides of history. History begot Rome, and history someday will bury it. In the meantime, you've other fish to fry. Have you forgotten? Are you to be an individual, a trespasser in territory none else has had the wit or nerve to explore, or just another troublesome mosquito to be swatted by the authorities? You're no longer king or 
warrior, remember, but something new. It will do your clansmen no good for you to be slain alongside them, but who can guess what benefits may result from a new life wholly led?" 
"You are correct," said Alobar. He sighed. "The clan, its lusty women and its noble hounds, lies behind me. It is forward I must go." 
After embracing the old man, he marched out into the snow. He aimed his boots at the east and forced his heels to follow his toes. Quickly, the little hut of the shaman was out of view. Out of sight, too, was the village and the manor. 
Frol must suspect that I am taking swift advantage of my beanship, straddling another's thighs at this late hour, he thought. He sensed that he was causing her some pain, and that, in turn, hurt him. He would miss Frol and the babies, perhaps more intensely than he missed Wren and Mik. But there was a strange wind blowing through him, was there not? Was it not blowing him away? 
The sky was a velvety black paw pressing on the white landscape with a feline delicacy, stars flying like sparks from its fur. The cry of an owl, brooding over its ruby appetites, cut through the frigid air like a vibrating pin. Then, all was silent except for the soft crunch, like ants chewing wax, of his boats upon the snow. His steps chickened. They took on a gay rhythm. He was very nearly dancing across the frozen fields. 
"The world is round," he sang, in tune with his footfalls. "Existence can be rearranged. A man can be many things. "I am special and free. "And the world is round round round." 
A few weeks later, Alobar was awakened by a hot sun in his face and a hot stench in his nostrils. He sat up in the grass and rubbed his eyes. Don't ask where the rest of that dream went, Alobar. All dreams continue in the beyond. 
The warm sunlight gave him a lazy, comfortable, lie-around-all-morning-and~- scratch-your-armpits feeling, but inside his nose the cilia were waving, the 
 
turbinates were knocking, and the sphenoethmoidal recess was on red alert: by Woden's honey pots, what a scent! 
Nearby, a flock was grazing, and Alobar guessed the aroma must be its fault, but fie on wool and a pox on mutton if sheep were so rude to the proboscis. Perhaps in warm climates, sheep take on the odor of their cousins, thought Alobar, for surely it was the essence of goat that permeated his nasal passages, and rutting goat at that. 
With a flock so close, there must be a shepherd in the vicinity. Maybe I can talk him out of a few crumbs of breakfast ere I get me to a prettier-smelling place. Alobar went to rise but something snagged his cloak and pulled him back down. Again he tried to stand, again he was yanked to the sod. He reached behind him to free himself from the branch or vine that held him, but he touched nothing. Scooting forward a few feet on his rump, he made another attempt at rising, and another and another, each with the same result. Angry and a little frightened, he drew his knife and, still sitting, whirled around. There was no one behind him. With all of the elastic in his leg muscles, he snapped himself upward. Thud! Down he went like a sack of meteorites addressed special delivery to gravity. 
This time he just sat there, fingering his blade, giving every sheep on the hillside a good look at his expression of frustration, bewilderment, and humiliation. Nearly a quarter of an hour passed before, very slowly, centimeter by centimeter, sinew by sinew, he commenced cautiously to draw himself upright. And he made it! He was standing! He stretched, expelled a sigh of relief that fluttered the lashes of a ewe twenty yards away, and strode off, only in midstride to fall flat on his new growth of beard. 
An outburst of wild, magnificent laughter resounded over the hillside and echoed from the crags in the distance; wild laughter because its notes were outside the range of the normal human voice and so uninhibited as to make the shaman's cackle seem fettered; magnificent laughter because it seemed huge in scope and rare in distribution; laughter that was simultaneously strange and familiar and that instilled in Alobar the fear of the unknown and the joy of self-recognition. It was laughter that might have been squeezed from the tubes of his own darkest heart, then amplified fifty times through the bellows of a loon's ass. 
The laughter evidently affected the sheep, for all at once they began to bleat and kick, the oldest rams in the flock cavorting as if they were lambs. A breeze 
suddenly raked the landscape, drawing from the grasses a dark murmuring, and setting the thistle bushes to chattering like thin teeth. Bees abandoned the gorse to fly in crazy circles a few feet above ground, while the birdsong that previously had gladdened the hillside lowered appreciably in volume, its capricious trills and whistles replaced by a consistent melodic line, almost reverent in tone. The unease that Alobar experienced was as piercing as a thorn, yet there was a pleasant tightening in his groin, and his limbs felt ticklish and kinetic, inspired beyond his control to join the flock in its awkward dance. The way he found himself moving horizontally through the grass made him wonder if he had not been seized by the Serpent Power, if there were not an edge, after all, and if he were not dangerously close to it. 
"Hey!" a voice called out. "Why doth thy crawl about on thy belly? Art thou a man or a worm?" 
Compelled by the voice, which was both dreadful and jolly, threatening and seductive, Alobar forgot his recent failures and scrambled to his feet. "Where are you?" he asked in a shaky falsetto. "Why are you laughing?" 
"I am everywhere," the voice boomed. "And why shouldn't a god laugh at the puny endeavors of man?" 
It was then that Alobar's battle-trained vision focused on the leer in the leaves. At first, the leer was all that he could see, but then he caught sight of a shaggy tail and realized that it was connected to the leer. (The tail bone frequently is connected to the leer bone, although today that connection is illegal in seventeen states and the District of Columbia.) In a moment, the bushes parted and into the pasture pranced an unbelievable creature, all woolly and goatlike from its waist down to its hooves; human and masculine above. Or, to be precise, human above save for a pair of stubby horns thrusting like bronze-tipped beet-diggers in the bright mountain air. 
"You—you are the—the Horned One," stammered Alobar. 
The creature gamboled closer, dispelling any doubts about the origin of the stench. "In some places they know me as that. Herebouts, they call me Pan." He paused. "Those who still honor me, that is." He paused again. "And who might thou be? And what is thy mission?" 
"Alobar, once king, once serf, now individual—have you heard of individuals? 
—free and hungry, at your service. My mission? Well, frankly, I am running away from death." 
Pan's hooves, which had been pawing the turf in an almost drunken little fandango, became gradually immobile, and the leer slowly slid off his face as if some weak but persistent hand had shoved it. His thick lips dipped downward in a solemn arc, and in his goatish eyes woe replaced mischief. "I, too," he said. 
"What's that?" asked Alobar. 
"Art thou so famished that thou cannot hear? I said that I, too, am running from death." 
"But that couldn't be! You are a god. Are not the gods immortal?" "Not quite. True, we art immune to the chills and accidents that swallow up 
humanity, but gods can die. We live only so long as people believe in us." 
"Hmmm. I never thought of that," said Alobar. "But certainly for the likes of you there is no shortage of believers." Despite Pan's bedraggled curls and matted wool, despite the drool in the goatee and the manure on his hooves, he was by far the most impressive being Alobar had ever met. 
"Ha! Where hath thou spent thy life, Alobar? In a pumpkin? Did thou just fall off a turnip cart?" 
"I am an eater of beets," proclaimed Alobar proudly. 
"How could such an ignoramus ever hath been a king? Doth thy people reside so far back in the sticks that they never heard the famous voice crying out over the wine-dark sea, 'Great Pan is dead, Great Pan is dead'? Of course, that was nearly a millennium ago and as even a lout such as thou can see, I am still kicking. Nevertheless, with the birth of Christ, belief in me dwindled, and I have been scrambling for my life ever since." 
"Yes, now that you mention it, the priest in our church did often refer to you as one of the false deities. In fact, the way he described the devil—the silly man believes there is but one god and one demon—he could be your twin." 
"Thou art Christian?" Part pronounced the word with such contempt that the 
flock stopped dancing and glared at Alobar, the bees buzzed angrily at him, and a passing butterfly shat upon him with remarkable accuracy. 
"Oh, no, no," said Alobar hurriedly, wiping the green butterfly poop from the corner of his eye. "Not really. I merely played along with my neighbors to assuage their suspicions. This fellow Christ is a bit namby-pamby for my taste. And now that I hear what he's done to you, why, I like him the less, even if he did favor individualism." 
"Thou ninny," "Sir, I will not have you calling me a nanny!" 
"Ninny, not nanny! Doth thou think I would call thee after one of the things I love best?" Pan's heavy lids drooped momentarily as his thoughts strayed to other pastures on other days, days when the petal-pink genitals of the she-goats drew him down from the crags. 
"Just the same ..." Alobar's fist was about his knife. 
"If thou wouldst outdistance death, don't blow thy slender lead by challenging a god, neither Christ, who is not here to defend himself, nor I, who art much closer than I need be to smite a prideful gnat such as thee." With a disagreeable thump, Alobar landed on his chin again. Pan had not moved a muscle. "Namby-pamby, huh? Christ said that illumination is found only by putting everything one has in jeopardy. Thou, of all humans, should understand the courage that is required to reject the secure blessings of society in order to woo the unpredictable ecstasies of the solitary soul. It is true that Christ had little enthusiasm for dance or copulation, that he took 'right' and 'wrong' too seriously and set himself apart from the natural world, but for all his shortcomings, he was much superior to thou mortals who hath embraced him to further thine own ends." 
Although Alobar was no more fond of criticism than of being flung to the ground like a peach pit, he had learned from the shaman that the path to the marvelous is sometimes cleared by a sharp tongue, and when Pan began to move away, intimating that their conversation was done, Alobar hastened to draw him back. "Tell me, Horned One," he called, "why do you defend Christ if he is threatening your hide?" 
The god paused, assuming a haunchy stance, like a woman in high heels. Instead 
of replying, however, he produced reed pipes and blew through them in a manner that caused the sheep to skip again and the little clouds to wiggle in the sky. The music was high-pitched and playful, a frail, tremulous, silvery sound that unfurled in lazy spirals without a care in the world. So immense was the contrast between this lighthearted piping and Pan's demeanor, his crude, simian features, and great sad eyes, that Alobar was moved in spite of himself, and when at last the music ceased, he knocked away a tear with his knuckles and said, "For you, sir, may the jaws of death have cotton teeth." 
"For thee, as well," answered Pan. "But how can we toast without strong wine to lift? And thou did announce thy hunger so emphatically that even the deaf roots took note. I'll wager thou be horny, into the bargain. Come with me, Alobar, for while we must go forever in despair, let us also go forever in the enjoyment of the world." 
In a flash, Pan was across the pasture, Alobar at his heels, scaling the rugged rocks, oblivious to the thickets of violent thistles. Alobar was physically fit, hardened by his peasant labor and recent travels, but he could not keep pace with the god, and soon Pan was out of sight. That was no real problem, however, for Alobar simply followed the scent, that effluvium of goat glands that hung in the air like a salty mist and drew him ever higher up the craggy vertebrae. The higher Alobar climbed, the more piercing his unease, until he was in a literal state of panic. Just when this thrilling anxiety was at its zenith, tempting him with irrational impulses to throw himself from the cliffs, he heard girlish voices and the sound of splashing water. The panic completely vaporized as the Pan odor led him into a grotto, a ferny recess in the middle of which was a pellucid pool. 
Enjoying the liquid pleasures of the pool were seven or eight unusual human females: short in stature, though full in contour, their bones packed into loaves of ivory and petunia* their tangled hair hanging like ropes of seaweed, nearly to their heels; their perfect nipples as red as guinea pig eyes, their squeals the kind that leave a glow in the dark; and not one of them older than the teenage Frol he'd left in Aelfric. Sweet genital sparks flew when they looked at Alobar, and he sensed himself in company most benevolent. 
Directly across the pool, in the mouth of a shallow cave, hunkered Pan, a wineskin in one fist, an erection in the other. In a rough clay bowl at his feet, dangerously close to the sizzling bulb of his member, were olives, figs, and feta 
cheese. With a jerk of his head, the god beckoned. Alobar was famished, but in order to reach the food and drink, he had to wade through nymph-infested waters. Summoning his nerve, he plunged in. Brunch time in Arkadia. 
The remainder of the day was spent in a luxurious, pastel stupor against which Alobar's northern temperament rebelled in vain. He had expected the nymphs to be quite wild in their demonstrations, imagined them biters, scratchers, and screamers, yet neither as king nor serf had he known such delicacy, and the softness in which the pleasures of the after- 
noon were couched made the hero in him a bit embarrassed. When he glanced about him in the pale twilight, however, he saw everywhere evidence of his participation: dried semen frosted the thighs of napping nymphs, clots of it floated in the shadowy waters like weavings wrenched loose from the looms of the trout, and upon the tips of bracken there glistened drops too milky to be dew. It couldn't have been Pan's output alone because Alobar's testicles were as flat and juiceless as trampled grapes. Besides, after an hour's eventful splash in the pool, Pan had crawled into the cave and fallen into a lengthy snooze from which the purring ecstasies of the nymphs were much too low to wake him. 
"Pan is not well," the nymphs confided. 
"I watched him scale the rocks, I watched him set four of you to coming in a row," said Alobar. "He seems fit enough to me." 
The nymphs released a chorus of dreamy sighs. "You should have seen him when he was in his prime. He's like a sick dove, nowadays, compared to the goat he used to be." 
"Is it Christ who is making him weak?" 
"Not Christ but Christians. With every advance of Christianity, his powers recede," said one nymph. 
"It started long before Christ," said a second. 
"Yes, it did," agreed the first. "It began with the rise of the cities. There simply was no place in the refined temples of Attica and Sparta for a mountain goat like Pan." 
A third nymph, who, with a wad of leaves, was scrubbing herself clean of caked secretions, joined in. "It was man's jealousy of woman that started it," she said. "They wanted to drive the goddesses out of Olympus and replace them with male gods." 
"Is not Pan a male god?" asked Alobar. 
"True, he is, but he is associated with female values. To diminish the worth of women, men had to diminish the worth of the moon. They had to drive a wedge between human beings and the trees and the beasts and the waters, because trees and beasts and waters are as loyal to the moon as to the sun. They had to drive a wedge between thought and feeling, between the lamplight by which they count the day's earnings and the dark to which our Pan is ever connected. At first they used Apollo as the wedge, and the abstract logic of Apollo made a mighty wedge, indeed, but Apollo the artist maintained a love for women, not the open, unrestrained lust that Pan has, but a controlled longing that undermined the patriarchal ambition. When Christ came along, Christ, who slept with no female, neither two-legged nor four, Christ, who played no musical instrument, recited no poetry, and never kicked up his heels by moonlight, this Christ was the perfect wedge. Christianity is merely a system for turning priestesses into handmaidens, queens into concubines, and goddesses into muses." 
"And who can guess into what it will turn us nymphs?" 
Alobar felt a surge of beet-red temper. Violently, he shook his head. "The world is changing," he said, "but there will always be a place in it for you. And for Pan." 
"Perhaps. Certainly, we wish the moderns no harm, though Pan plays roughly with them at times. And thou? Will thou escape the fate thy feareth?" 
"You misunderstand me. I do not fear death. I resent it. Everything must die, apparently, and I am no exception. But I want to be consulted. You know what I mean? Death is impatient and thoughtless. It barges into your room when you are right in the middle of something, and it doesn't bother to wipe its boots. I have a new passion, my darlings, a passion for being myself, and for being more than previously has been manifested for a single lifetime. I am determined to die at my own convenience. Therefore, I journey to the east, where, I have been told, there are men who have taught death some manners." 
"We suspect thou art as foolish as brave, Alobar. In fact, bravery may be naught but foolishness. Fear, like love, is a call into the wild—into the deep, shadowy grotto. Fear is a finer thing than resentment. Resentment, an affliction of the mind, will leave thee complaining in Christ's well-lighted halls, but fear, a wisdom of the body, will lead thee back to Pan." 
While Alobar was thinking that over, Pan awoke, stretched, and scampered into the thistles. When with the sun's setting he did not return, Alobar gave the nymphs a last squeeze and began his long, laborious descent, during which he several times heard thunderous laughter ring round about him and once thought he saw a moonbeam strike, high up in the crags, a fleeting horn. 
Alone, with not so much as a sperm left to accompany him, Alobar again directed his steps toward the east. His was the gait of expectation, a pace set more by intuition than by reason, a clip fueled more by vague hints of wonderment than by steady assessments of purpose. 
He was to continue in that fashion for an inappropriately long stretch of literary time, passing through more landscapes than there are keys on a typewriter, having more adventures than there are nibs for pens. Not once during or following a perilous escapade did it occur to him that the unpredictability of the moment of one's death might provide life with its necessary tension. But ever mindful of the kin of Pan, whose memory no encounter, however dramatic, could obscure, he allowed himself to resent death less and fear it more. And as he passed through one exotic environment after another, learning languages, wearing out boots, he sang his little song: 
"I love the ground-o, ground-o A ball beneath my feet The world is round-o, round-o Just like a frigging beet." 
No, he would not be remembered as bard—nor, for that matter, as warrior or king. Life is fair, however, and in the fragrance industry, his name would one day become an accepted part of the nomenclature. According to Priscilla, the genius waitress, an alobar is a unit of measurement that describes the rate at which Old Spice after-shave lotion is absorbed by the lace on crotchless 
underpants, although at other times she has defined it as the time it takes Chanel No. 5 to evaporate from the wing tips of a wild duck flying backward. 
SEATTLE 
IT SEEMED LIKE THE WHOLE TOWN was at odds over the solar eclipse. A lot of people were of the opinion that since in Seattle one seldom saw the sun anyhow, there was nothing very special about not seeing it again. Monday morning would be only a shade darker than usual, they reasoned. The difference, according to others, perhaps the majority, was that Monday was forecast to be clear. With the absence of the cloud cover that normally caused the sky over Seattle to resemble cottage cheese that had been dragged nine miles behind a cement truck, the city, for the first time in memory, would have an unobstructed view of one of nature's most mystical spectacles. 
"Did you walk up to Volunteer Park to watch the eclipse?" was the first thing Ricki said to Priscilla when she came by her apartment Monday noon. 
"Nope. Didn't make it outdoors," said Priscilla, yawning. "You watched it on TV then?" "No, I didn't." "You didn't see it at all?" 
"I listened to it," said Priscilla. "I listened to it on the radio. It sounded like bacon frying." 
"Shit, woman. Sometimes I don't believe you're for real." Ricki looked about the room for a place to sit. The couch and the chair, the most logical contenders, were piled high with dirty clothes, clean clothes, clothes in transition, books, 
unopened mail, and laboratory equipment. There were also a couple of beets. Ricki elected to stand. "You'd better shift into your hurry-up offense," she said. "The meeting starts in thirty minutes." 
"I can shower on first down, make up on second1, and dress on third. If I haven't put it over by then, I can always kick a field goal." 
"Unless you fumble." 
Priscilla slammed the bathroom door. Ricki had to steady a beaker of liquid to prevent a major spill. 
The football repartee was the result of Ricki having talked Priscilla into spending the previous afternoon at the Kingdome, an outing that revealed to Priscilla what Ricki really liked about the Seahawks. It was the Seagals. "Fashions come and go, come and go," said Ricki, "but the length of the cheerleader skirt remains constant, and it is upon that abbreviated standard that I base my currency of joy." 
Today (they each had Sundays and Mondays off), Ricki was taking Priscilla to a meeting of the Daughters of the Daily Special, an organization of waitresses with university degrees. At least in the beginning all the members had had university degrees. The group had some time ago lowered its standards to accept waitresses with only two years of college. That was when Ricki was admitted, back when it was still called Sisters of the Daily Special. "Sisters" had come to sound too political. It suggested a feminine solidarity that the waitresses, in their honesty, considered not just inaccurate but inappropriate. "We're out to grab us some gusto, not cut anybody's nuts off," was the way Ricki put it. 
In Seattle, as in most other large cities, there were a fair number of women who had studied art, literature, philosophy, history, etc., only to find that their education and a dollar would buy them a glass of Perrier. True, they hadn't entered their respective fields with the idea of getting rich, but neither had they expected that a summa cum laude would take them about as far from campus as the nearest dry water hole. Unable to support themselves in the work of their choice, they turned to waitressing, for there they could earn the most money for the least investment. If it wasn't possible for them to do something meaningful and fulfilling, at least 
they could be well compensated for a minimum of moral compromise and an 
even barer minimum of vocational commitment. 
The Daughters of the Daily Special, once they learned that they had too many individual differences to call themselves "Sisters," had adopted a very clean and simple raison d'etre: they planned to liberate each other, one at a time. They paid relatively stiff weekly dues, and they raised additional funds with such tried and true schemes as bikini car washes. Once or twice a year, depending upon how much was in their treasury, they awarded a grant that allowed a deserving member to lay down her tray and devote some time to her true calling. For example, they got Trixie Melodian out of the Salmon House and into the dance studio, where she choreographed her ballet based on the eruptions of Mount St. Helens; they bought Ellen Cherry Charles six months at her easel, where she completed a series of landscapes that was later hung in a restaurant ("I escaped, my paintings didn't," she commented); and Sheila Gomez was able to quit totaling bar tabs at La Buznik and finish writing her master's thesis in mathematics, "some kind of Puerto Rican trigonometry," according to Ricki. 
Ricki was an unlikely candidate for a Daily Special grant, since she had majored in physical education so that she could take lots of showers with the other coeds, but she was sure Priscilla could land one, and that was why she was sponsoring Priscilla for membership. At first, Priscilla was reluctant. She was just not a joiner. "The only organization I ever joined in my life was the Columbia Record Club," she declared, "and I had to get out of that because it was too disciplined." The more Ricki talked about those big fat juicy grants, however, the better they sounded. She felt that she was close to a breakthrough in her experiments, but she was almost too tired to continue. If the Daughters could buy her a few uninterrupted months in her lab, she'd not only sign their roster, she'd kiss their behinds. "Starting with mine," chirped Ricki. 
Priscilla came out of the bathroom wearing tight jeans and a cable-knit, iguana- green pullover sweater that accentuated the red in her reddish-brown hair. For a change, she'd pinked her Cupid's bow mouth—tiny in comparison to Ricki's full Latino lips—and brushed on enough purple eye shadow to make Bela Lugosi look like a lifeguard. "Wow!" exclaimed Ricki. "You're the second most impressive thing I've seen today, the first being a total eclipse of the sun." 
"One would have thought a solar eclipse would have made a noise like the Mormon Tabernacle Choir," said Priscilla, "but it really did sound like bacon frying." 
"You slept through it, you asshole." 
They drove downtown in Ricki's rusted-out VW bug. "I'm ashamed to be seen behind the wheel of this bedpan," Ricki said. "It looks like it has a skin disease. Worse, it looks like a car you would drive." 
"When I perfect that formula, you're gonna see me driving a BMW or a Lincoln Continental," said Priscilla. "Maybe both at the same time." 
"That's why we're enlisting you in the Daughters. Gonna get you out of that smelly studio and into a penthouse. I do hope you'll keep it tidier than your present digs. Which reminds me, Pris, what were those old dry beets doing in your armchair?" 
"Somebody's been leaving them outside my door. To be perfectly frank, I thought it might be you." 
"Me? Why would I do an idiotic thing like that? I hate beets. In fact, I hate most vegetables." She paused. "I must admit, though, that vegetarians taste better than heavy meat eaters. Smokers are the worst. You wouldn't think that you could detect it, you know, down there. But you can." She made a face that caused the faint handlebar of hairs above her lip to bristle like the fuzz on an ostrich's cheek. 
"Since I've been working at El Papa Muerta, nothing tastes good to me anymore," Priscilla said. 
The holocaustal effect that serving food for a living can have on one's appetite was a subject discussed at the meeting of the Daughters of the Daily Special. "That's why it's preferable to wait cocktails," somebody said. "No, that's worse," responded Sheila Gomez. "Waiting cocktails kills your appetite for liquor." 
The meeting was held in the Spotted Necktie Room at the Old Spaghetti Factory. There were about forty women present, twice as many as Priscilla had expected. After they finished complaining about appetite loss, they complained about the neutron bomb that working nights had dropped on their social lives. Then they really got steamed up over having to be nice to people they couldn't stand. It wasn't the men who infuriated them, not even bottom-pinching men (some waitresses, a minority, actually enjoyed having their bottoms pinched), it was the women. "The most unbearable aspect of this job is waiting on rich, crabby, 
drunk ladies," said one waitress. "Right on!" said another. "Except for the rare one who might have toted trays somewhere in her sordid past, they'll pick the tips up off the table as soon as their husbands' backs are turned." 
"How true. A wife is a waitress's public enemy number one." "Beware of blue hair and T-shirts that say 'World's Best Grandma.' They expect 
you to tip them." 
Next they compared notes on how much their feet hurt and the psychotic states of cooks. Evidently, all restaurant cooks were psychotic, some were just less violent than others. It was all rather depressing. But, then, they began to share stories of the odd mammoth tip they'd received the previous week, the odd offer of booze, cocaine, or a big house in the South of France; the odd, interesting customer, including local celebrities, who the celebrity dined with and what they ate; and before long, drinking Chianti all the while, they got off the subject of waitressing altogether and had a fine old time exchanging reviews and critiques of the solar eclipse. 
The meeting was nearly over when they got around to considering Priscilla's application for membership. As Ricki had warned it might, it met with some opposition. 
"It's irrelevant that she's had only one year of college," Ricki told the assembly. "She's a genius." 
"Says who?" 
"Says me." 
"Ha ha." 
"You don't have to be a genius to recognize one. If you did, Einstein would never have gotten invited to the White House." 
"Well, how about some proof." "Go ahead," said Ricki, "test her. Ask her a question." "What's the capital of San Salvador?" asked Trixie Melodian. 
"You call that a genius question?" Doris Newton responded. "I've seen retired air force sergeants answer harder questions than that on Tic Tac Dough." 
"Besides," said Ellen Cherry Charles, "San Salvador is the capital. The country is El Salvador." 
"Are you positive?" asked Trixie. "Why would the city have a longer name than the country?" 
"If she's such a genius, why is she working at El Papa Muerta? Everybody knows Mexican restaurants are the pits for tips." 
"El Papa Muerta is about as Mexican as Juneau." 
"Does El Papa Muerta mean The Dead Potato or The Dead Pope?" 
"What's the difference?" 
"I resent that," said Sheila Gomez, glancing at the little crucifix that dangled its gold-skinned heels above her globes. 
Priscilla cleared her throat. She spoke for the first time since the meeting began. Her voice was a trifle high and squeaky. "I've worked at five Mexican restaurants in three years. I'm searching for the perfect taco." 
That stopped them. Hell, maybe she was a genius. 
Ricki stood again. "Little Priscilla here is a scientist. She's got her own laboratory. And is she onto something hot! I'm not at liberty to reveal what it is at this point in time, you understand, a slip of the lip can sink a ship, but when the moment comes . . . well, you're all gonna feel like a slow boat to China for hemming and hawing over taking her in. Let me remind you of something. None of the grants that the Daughters have awarded so far have generated a dime of income for the program. Nothing personal, Sheila, I know Third World algebra is important, but it didn't do dogshit at the box office; and, Joan, that little book of poems you printed about driftwood and your mama's melanoma was real pretty, it brought big whopping tears to my eyes is what it did, but, honestly now, the GNP was unaffected. Ditto, Trixie's harmonic tremors. I don't want to sound crass, but Priscilla here is zoned commercial. She's got a million bucks by its long green tail, and if we help her hold on and haul it in, each and every one 
of us is gonna soak our weary feet in Dom Perignon. 
This is not the time to talk about funding her scientific research, we'll come to that a ways down the road, but this smart little goose may be prepared to lay us our first golden egg. All in favor of admitting her to the club say 'aye. 
The ayes swept it, and out in the parking lot, Ricki looked at Priscilla and winked. "What's the capital of El Papa Muerta?" she asked. "San Papa Muerta?" 
Priscilla grabbed Ricki and kissed her full and wet on the mouth, right in front of a great many waitresses who were pulling out of the lot in various rusted-out VW bugs. The rusted-out VW bug is the national bird of Waitressland. It was then and there that Priscilla made up her mind to go to bed with Ricki. But while her mind was convinced, her body needed encouragement, so they went to the Virginia Inn at First and Virginia and drank a gang of discount champagne. Still, Priscilla's endocrine system was lagging a few laps behind her resolve. "My pilot light has gone out and needs to be relit," she said. Ricki suggested a porno movie. She hoped that a double bill of Starship Eros and Garage Girls would turn up the thermostat. Priscilla hoped so, too. 
Once in the theater, however, the Chianti and champagne began to get to Ricki. They were sitting up close, in the third row, and all of those colossal in-and-outs and up-and-downs made her queasy. It was a classic case of motion sickness. She held her tummy and moaned. Priscilla turned to the row of baldheaded men behind them. "Would you mind not smoking, " she said. "This woman is having a religious experience." 
"If they jiggle one more time, I'm gonna spew," said Ricki. 
Priscilla helped her to her feet and led her down the aisle. A couple of the bald boys followed them. "My friend has a chronic allergy to heterosexuality," Priscilla told them. "We brought her here in an attempt to activate her body's natural immune system, but it didn't work." The men laughed kind of nervously. "Don't mock the afflicted!" Priscilla screamed at them. The Don Juans returned to their seats. 
It had been a while since Priscilla had driven a car. She shifted gears jerkily. Ricki groaned. They had to make three pit stops between downtown and the Ballard district, a distance so slight that octogenarian Norwegian crones had been known to walk it, their shopping bags loaded with lutefisk. At 
Ricki's duplex, Priscilla washed the victim's face and tucked her in. She appeared to have passed out, but as Priscilla was tiptoeing to the door, she called in a weak voice, "It was wonderful, Pris." 
"What was, honey? The meeting? The champagne?" 
"The eclipse," said Ricki. "It was probably the most real thing I've ever seen, but it was also like a dream. You know what I mean? Real and unreal, beautiful and strange, like a dream. It got me high as a kite, but it didn't last long enough. It ended too soon and left nothing behind." 
"That's how it is with dreams," said Priscilla. "They're the perfect crime." She thought then of the elusive exudate, the living emerald she Hunted in the forests of olfactory memory, the dream she lived in her nose. She felt her laboratory pulling her like a tide, and it taxed her strength to resist. 
With effort, she drove Ricki's car to the waterfront and sipped a cup of bivalve nectar at Ivar's Clam Bar (it was a walk-up, fast-fish stand where she needn't worry about being served by a waitress who might have been at the meeting that day). Then, having resolved on her last birthday to complete every task she began, she returned to the moviehouse and watched the ending of Starship Eros. Everything considered, it had been the most relaxing and entertaining two days off she'd enjoyed all year. "All work and no play makes Priscilla a dull genius," she lectured herself on the way home. 
It was after midnight when she arrived at her building. There was an odor in the hallway more funky than a cabbage pot, and on her doorsill there sat in certain firepluggian splendor, like a dropping from the eclipse, like a disembodied bulb that had been beamed to Earth from Starship Eros, another beet. 
NEW ORLEANS 
LOUISIANA IN SEPTEMBER was like an obscene phone call from nature. The air—moist, sultry, secretive, and far from fresh—felt as if it were being exhaled into one's face. Sometimes it even sounded like heavy breathing. Honeysuckle, swamp flowers, magnolia, and the mystery smell of the river scented the atmosphere, amplifying the intrusion of organic sleaze. It was aphrodisiac and repressive, soft and violent at the same time. In New Orleans, in the French Quarter, miles from the barking lungs of alligators, the air maintained this quality of breath, although here it acquired a tinge of metallic halitosis, due to fumes expelled by tourist buses, trucks delivering Dixie beer, and, on Decatur Street, a mass-transit motor coach named Desire. 
The only way to hang up on the obscene caller was to install air conditioning. The Parfumerie Devalier never had been air-conditioned, however, and unless it lifted from its current economic slump, it probably never would be. As a consequence, both Madame Lily Devalier and her maid and assistant, V'lu Jackson, held old-fashioned lacquered paper fans, with which they stirred the humid respiration that Louisiana panted into the shop. They were sitting on the lime velvet love seat at the rear of the retail area, watching television and fanning away. On the six o'clock news there were scenes of a total eclipse of the sun as photographed from atop the Space Needle in Seattle and the Eiffel Tower in Paris (the path of an eclipse is one hundred and sixty-seven miles wide, allowing Seattle to catch the southern edge of this one and Paris the northern edge: in New Orleans, the sun had burned on as was its habit, undimmed except by a late afternoon shower). 
"Whooee!" exclaimed V'lu as she watched first Seattle and then Paris go from broad daylight to supernatural darkness in a matter of seconds. "Whooee! That done beats hurricane drops all to pieces." 
"I see it as an omen," said Madame Devalier. "Say whut?" 
"An omen. A sign. Paris is eclipsed, New Orleans basks in light. The perfumes of Devalier have always been as good as any in France, and now they are going to be better. Parfumerie Devalier is going to prosper, and Paris—proud, arrogant, pompous Paris—is going to play second fiddle." Madame touched the avalanche of her bosom with her fen, nodded three times, and smiled. 
V'lu giggled. "Seattle, too, ma'am." 
"What about Seattle?" 
"Seattle eclipsed, too. So we don't have to worry none 'bout Seattle." 
"I wasn't worried in the least about Seattle. Why would I worry about Seattle, of all places?" 
V'lu hesitated before replying. The young woman and the old woman stared at each other, fanning relentlessly. "She in Seattle, ma'am. Last anybody heard." 
"So? What difference does it make where 'she' is? Not that I don't have feelings for her, but her whereabouts has nothing to do with our business." 
Again V'lu hesitated. Her brown eyes opened as wide as the mouths of baby birds. "She got dee bottle," V'lu said. 
"The bottle! Bah! Poof! You and that bottle. Forget that bottle, it means nothing. Rien. Even if it had value, what on earth could she do with it?" Madame's fan whirred like a sewing machine. Her fan seemed to generate static electricity. A halo of heat lightning formed around it. "Even if that bottle is all you say it is, we don't need it. We have right here in this shop the most fabulous boof of jasmine the human nose has ever tasted—" 
"Bingo Pajama!" "I beg your pardon. Is that more vulgar slang from your vulgar generation?" 
"Bingo Pajama, ma'am. That he name. He be back from dee island nex week wif mo' flowers." 
"And we haven't tamed the last batch yet! Tangerine seems to work okay as the top note. It aerates rather quickly, but it rides the jasmine and doesn't sink completely into it. With a middle note of the vigor of that Bingo Pajama jasmine —my Lord in heaven, girl, is that actually his name?-\what we need is a base note with a floor of iron. It can't just sit there, though, it has to rise up subtly and unite the tangerine somehow with that bodacious jasmine theme. A. very special base note is what you and I must find." Madame Devalier's fan fluttered wildly, and V'lu fanned hard to keep up with her. 
"But let us not put the bam door before the horse." "Ma'am?" 
"We require a unique base note, and we will find one, if I have to turn my trick bag inside out to find it. Remember, I came up with hurricane drops long after the darkies said the recipe had been lost forever. Right?" 
"You right." 
"First, however, we have a problem with overcook. It's not rank, but it's rank enough. We are shooting the moon on this boof, cher; we have got the raw product to make half of France whistle Dixie, and we are not going to blow it because we are too poor to pump or flash. So you know how we are going to handle it? Papa's fat!" 
The good Madame was up to her bouffant in the backwater of boof biz. She had selected jasmine as the theme note of her comeback scent knowing that it was a blue-chip ingredient, a botanical platinum, a tried and tested floral champion whose performance in perfumery was rivaled only by the rose, yet knowing equally well that, like any prima donna, there were conditions under which it would refuse to sing. Jasmine (known in extreme cases as Jasminum officinale) simply will not tolerate the heat involved in steam distillation. Even boiling water is enough to murder the aroma principal of its flowers. Jasmine oil has to be extracted, not distilled, and efficient and effective extraction is not quite as easy as tying a loose tooth to a knob. 
One begins by gently percolating fresh petals in a solvent— purified hexane, to be precise. That was what Madame and V'lu did to Bingo Pajama's flowers, with fine results. But then the solvent has to be removed. No woman of grace wishes to dab about her body with industrial hexane, however pure. If the Parfumerie Devalier had owned a flash evaporator or a vacuum pump, the hexane stink would have been off that jasmine oil faster than a Japanese commuter off the bullet train. Alas, the little shop on Royal Street could no more afford that kind of equipment than a Third World spider could afford designer webs and flies cordon bleu. Thus, Lily and V'lu steeped their extract in a vat of below-boil water, forced it through a filter tube, distilled it with alcohol, and hoped for the best. 
When Lily Devalier maneuvered her midget submarine of a nose along dockside 
of the concentration crock, oh!, a nocturnal warmth enveloped her brain, washing her in star waters, translucent cherub sperms, and the midnight blue syrups that tropical moths lick. The devouring delicacy of this jasmine swept her away, but she was not so smitten that she failed to detect a slight overcooked sensation and a faint, lingering off-note of solvent. It was then and there that she decided to resort to enfleurage, the old process, the method her Papa had used. In enfleurage, petals are laid out on trays of fat, where they are allowed to remain until the fat has absorbed most of the fragrance. When the flowers are exhausted, fresh ones are substituted. In time, the fat becomes saturated with the floral aromatic, which may then be sponged off the fat with baths of alcohol. It's all done by hand, and it's painstaking and slow; far, far too slow for the corporations of Paris and New York, but it would produce a truly superior oil, an essence worthy of the naked night creature that the Jamaican had captured for her, and worthy, too, of the rare base note that Madame had sworn to find to support it. 
"It will be hard work, but we are going to go Papa's fat. Are you with me?" "You right." "Pardon?" "Ah wif you, ma'am. All dee way." 
The fan of Madame Devalier suddenly paused, as if her swollen, braceleted wrist had imagined it had heard the quitting whistle, then, poorer of some hopes but freer of some illusions, it resumed its hammering. "Let us have a bowl of gazpacho, cher. Then we shall nap for a couple of hours. By ten, it should be cool enough to resume our work in the lab." 
"Ah sure wish you git dee upstairs air-conkditioned." 
"Why, V'lu, a hardy plantation girl like you, you know you don't require air conditioning to sleep." 
"Ah not talking 'bout no sleep, ma'am. Ah be talking "bout vegables. Vegables flying in through dee winda and landing on mah bed." 
"Oh, poof! Just some buck trying to attract your attention and not suave enough to send roses. Probably that crazy Jamaican." 
"Oh, no, ma'am. Bingo Pajama smell nice." 
"What do you mean, cher?" 
"Nebber mind. Ah be dishing up dee cold soup now." 
"Merci. Thank you. Let us dine down here in the shop, it might be less oppressive." 
Hips swaying like mandolins on a gypsy wagon wall, V'lu climbed the narrow stairs, leaving her employer to fend off with her fan the lewd breath of Louisiana, as she awaited the seven o'clock news and yet another ominous view of the blacking out of Paris. 
From the top step, V'lu called, "If Miz Priscilla not be doing nothin' wif dat bottle, how come she at dee perfumers' convention?" 
There was no reply, but V'lu could tell somehow that the fanning had stopped. 
PARIS 
T he carrot symbolizes financial success; a promised, often illusory reward. A carrot is a wish, a lie, a dream. In that sense, it has something in common with perfume. A beet, however ... a beet is proletarian, immediate, and, in a thoroughly unglamorous way, morbid. What is the message a beet bears to a perfumer? That his chic, elitist ways are doomed? That he might profit from a more natural, earthy, straightforward approach? This beet, this ember, this miner's bloodshot eye, this apple that an owl has pierced, is it a warning or friendly advice? 
Those were the thoughts of Marcel LeFever as he stood staring out of his office window on the twenty-third floor. Marcel had been standing at the window for 
hours. Ever since the eclipse. 
Claude LeFever, Marcel's cousin and lookalike, had watched the eclipse from his own office window. A practical man, Claude nevertheless had been moved. Paris is given to the dramatic at any time, yet, as daylight began ever more quickly to fade that morning and the great shadow rode out of the west, the city seemed to turn into a stage set, an eerily lit backdrop before which a drama surpassing even the talents of the French was about to unfold. As the strange twilight gathered, bands of alternating light and shadow began to ripple along the facade of the cathedral across the street, and when Claude glanced at the sky, he saw that the text of Les Miserables had been painted over by Salvador Dali. The sun was so round and glossy and black that had it a figure eight on it, well, it would have validated a lot of long-standing philosophical and theological complaints, underlining once and for all just where we earthlings sit on the cosmic pool table. A silver glow, like a blaze of molten escargot tongs, erupted from behind the ebony corona, and Claude felt himself trembling with a sort of euphoria. 
When, after three awe-filled minutes, a blinding diamond crust of sun emerged from the lunar umbra, Claude heard others in the building applauding, and he, too, clapped his soft, manicured hands, albeit discreetly. The sun was back on the job, but for some reason, he did not feel like returning directly to work, so he went next-door to discuss the celestial spectacle with Marcel. Marcel would understand his oddly euphoric state. If anyone might explain why an eclipse of the sun could arouse in him such a profound sense of derealization, Marcel might. There were those who claimed that if it didn't smell, Marcel LeFever had no interest in it, but Claude knew better. Besides, since it was Marcel's gift to detect odors too faint to register in others' snouts, well, who was to say if in his cousin's world all things did not have their characteristic aromas? Claude recalled a night on the beach when Marcel had stated that the sea smelled differently at full moon than at new. They were younger then, in their twenties, and if he wasn't mistaken, they had smoked a little hashish, so perhaps it was a joke. But if there were lunar smells, there might be solar, also. What if an eclipse emitted a particular olfactory vibration picked up by animals, say, and a few sensitive humans,. and what if this signal could be analyzed, reproduced, amplified, and bottled? Talk about a heady perfume! Anyone who caught a whiff might become as giddy as he was now. Claude felt a pang in his temples, and he winced. His mind simply was not accustomed to this kind of high-flying fancy. 
Marcel was standing in his window, staring out as if transfixed, and Claude 
elected for the moment not to infringe on his reverie. Instead, he retreated to his own office, opened the elegantly creaky door of a Louis XVI cabinet and removed a bottle of Pernod. From the executive refrigerator, his secretary procured water and ice cubes. Claude splashed himself a healthy one,. noticed how the Pernod turned from clear to milky with the addition of water, and wondered if that was analogous to the way the eclipse had affected his thinking —or had it just the opposite effect? He gulped one drink, sipped another, and an hour, nearly, passed before he again called on his cousin. Marcel remained at the window, only now he was wearing his whale mask. 
All afternoon Marcel stood in the window, all afternoon Claude drank. At five, when the secretaries went home, Claude took what was left of the Pernod and moved to the receptionist's desk, from where he might watch Marcel through a door left slightly ajar. Claude would have denied that he was spying. Rather, he had a protective interest in his cousin, for business as well as familial reasons. In fact, old Luc LeFever, Claude's father, Marcel's uncle, and at seventy, very much president of the firm, personally had charged Claude with the responsibility of looking out for Marcel. "He's a bedbug," Luc had said, "but you see to it that he's a safe and contented bedbug." 
Claude wasn't entirely sure that Marcel was buggy, and he was less sure that he was content, but he would do whatever necessary to insure his safety. For a long time now, Marcel had been critical of the manner in which the LeFever company was evolving. Marcel was a perfumer. He believed in perfume. Colognes, toilet waters, and bath oils were all right with him, since they were merely diluted perfumes, and he had not objected strongly when the scents he and his assistants created had been used to enhance soaps, powders, body lotions, hand creams, and shampoos. He loathed the very word deodorant, however, and once at a board meeting tried to force a fellow officer of the company to eat the antiperspirant stick LeFever was about to market. He had had to be physically restrained. Yet, that was minor compared to his reaction to the news that LeFever was going to supply a scent to be used in the manufacturing of toilet paper. "Welcome to the aroma chemical industry," Claude had said. "We are now a full-fledged fragrance house." "We are a factory!" Marcel had responded, with enough contempt in his voice to wither the blubber off a bishop, and he stormed off to the Louvre, where the smell of great art calmed him down until he came upon one of those paintings by Hieronymus Bosch in which a little person is shoving a bouquet of flowers up another little person's rectum, whereupon he commenced to yell, "No used-car salesman is going to wipe his ass with my 
perfume!" and the museum guards threw him into the street. It wasn't long before LeFever was supplying the fragrance compounds for cleaners, disinfectants, furniture polish, textiles, stationery, rubber bands, shark repellent, and scratch-n-sniff kiddie books, and the day Claude and Luc decided to introduce "space sprays" to reodorize public buildings and subways, Marcel screamed "Muzak for the nose!" and sailed for Tahiti. In a year he was back, and they welcomed him home without question, for without their "Bunny," they were, indeed, just a factory. 
It wasn't for his sexual habits that Marcel was called Bunny. Like those pious citizens who attend church every Sunday, then cheat and lie their way through the week, Marcel visited a brothel religiously on Saturday nights, then seemed to forget sex entirely for the next six days. Except for a recent encounter at a perfumers' convention in America, he had never been carnally involved with a woman who was not a professional, and then sparingly. No, his nickname came from his nose. A rabbit has been calculated to possess one-hundred-million olfactory receptors—small wonder its little schnozz is always twitching, it is trapped in an undulating blizzard of aromatic stimuli—and Marcel "Bunny" LeFever was reputed, with some exaggeration, to be the human equivalent of Peter Cottontail. In the laboratories of LeFever, there were spectrometers, gas liquid chromatographs, nuclear magnetic scanners, and other instruments, rapid and precise, with which to analyze and test aromatic substances, but since the worth of a fragrance depends upon its effect on the nose, scientific instrumentation could never hope to replace the sniffing snout of flesh as the final arbiter of fragrance value, and, by general agreement, Marcel's nose was the finest in the business. It could determine whether the balsam gum in a shipment from Peru had had too much rain, whether unscrupulous merchants in Madagascar had been adulterating the ylang-ylang oil again, or whether there was a "wobble" in the synthetic geraniol. Its greatest talent, however, was its ability to sniff out arrangements and combinations that could result in new perfumes. It functioned as a catalytic laser, oxidizing the passion that slept unaware in a violet, releasing the trade winds bottled up in orange peel; identifying by name and number the butterflies dissolved in chips of sandalwood and marrying them off, one by one, to the wealthy sons of musk. 
As a manufacturer of aroma chemicals and fragrance compounds, LeFever was among the top twenty in the world. As a maker of fine perfumes, it was in the top five, and it was Marcel the Bunny who kept them there. The same Marcel who had been staring through a square foot of window glass for seven 
consecutive hours. Damn it, sensitive artist or no sensitive artist, pampered bedbug or no pampered bedbug, mystical eclipse or no mystical eclipse, it was time for somebody to throw a cigar at the smoke alarm. 
"Pardon, Bunny, I didn't intend to startle you, but I'm afraid you're starting to get tangled up in the drapes." 
"Drapes? You mean draperies. Drape is a verb, the noun is drapery. One drapes a window when one hangs draperies. It is impossible for one to become entangled in drapes, so I assume you were referring to draperies." 
"Oh, yes. But drapes can be a convenient abbreviation when one has had too much to drink." 
"If one can't say draperies, perhaps one shouldn't drink." 
It must have been disconcerting to receive a grammar lesson through a whale mask, but, outwardly at least, Claude took it in stride. "Be that as it may," he said, "I have drunk and drunk plenty. The eclipse made me do it. Wasn't it derealizing? Didn't it give you shivers? Didn't it transport you to another plane? Didn't it make your brown eyes blue?" 
The whale head nodded. "Is that what you were thinking about here at the window?" 
Marcel did not dare reveal that his thoughts, when interrupted, were of carrots and beets, for Claude, sloshed as he was, would surely find a way to connect verbally those vegetables to his nickname and coin some bad joke about bunny rabbits. So Marcel said, "No, I was thinking about perfume," which, given Marcel's perpetual obsession, wasn't a very large lie. "And I was thinking about V'lu." 
"Ah-ha!" exclaimed Claude. "You know, there's not much that can be done to heal the sting of a woman. As they say in her country, it's easier to scratch your ass than your heart." 
"You misunderstood me. Let me see if I can put it in words that even the inebriated might understand. For the past month I have spent most of my time down in the kitchen, perfecting the scent that we are calling New Wave. You are 
familiar with the rationale behind New Wave. We are predicting that for many people the fascination with nostalgia— with a past reputed to be more simple, more honest, more natural than the present—will soon subside. In the cities, there is a large, affluent, professional class that has already rejected the sweet, heavy, feminine, Oriental scents that the hippies ushered into favor in the sixties, as well as the clean, wholesome, fruity and herbal scents associated with the backpacker chic of the seventies. For this avant-garde, and for those who will flock to join it, LeFever is developing New Wave, a truly modern scent—sharp, hard-edged, assertive, unisexual, urbane, unromantic, nonmysterious, cool, light, elegant, and wholly synthetic—" 
"I know all that, Marcel." 
"Yes, but what you don't know is how boring and, ultimately, frightening I am finding this scent. I slept last night with New Wave on my pillowcase, and my dreams were totalitarian nightmares. The boof is not unattractive, yet when I test it, I have somehow the feeling that I am smelling the sinister vapors of fascism." 
"Really, Bunny. Ha ha." 
"I am not joking." Marcel removed the whale mask. His demeanor was serious, indeed. "I am not joking." 
"But, surely—" 
"When I smell New Wave, I have the sensation that I am smelling control, conformity, domination. As I have said, it has a definite appeal. ..." 
"Well, then—" 
"There is a comfort in conformity, a security in control, that is appealing. There is a thrill in domination, and we are all of us secretly attracted to violence." 
"A violent perfume? Ha ha. Remember that U.S. aftershave, Hat Karate?" "Were I to add but a trace note of leather to New Wave, Claude, I would say that 
I had drawn on my canvas the olfactory silhouette of the Nazi." 
The word jolted Claude. He shuddered. The LeFever twins had been small boys during the Nazi occupation of Paris, but they recalled it as an adult recalls the 
breaking of a bone in childhood: the sickening crack, the fear, the pain, the sadness, the sudden ooze of blood that shows itself like the black blush of fairy- tale witches. It was a wound upon their memory, a thud of monster boots in a distant sandbox. 
"New Wave is an intriguing perfume," Marcel went on, "but I am growing to loathe it, and actually to fear its implications. Therefore, I have been thinking today about raw materials. The eclipse set me to wondering about those powerful and mysterious aspects of the natural world that the perfumer has not tapped yet. We moved into synthetics as natural raw materials became less available, more expensive. But there are scores, perhaps hundreds, of raw materials in different parts of the world that we haven't examined—consider the valley of the Amazon, consider the ocean, for God's sake— and there is history. . . . The recent love affair with the past was with a relatively recent past. Fifty years ago, a century at the most. But what of the fragrances of five thousand years ago, were they as primitive and unrefined and fundamental as we believe? History? What about the fragrances of prehistory?" 
Marcel took a seat. He sighed. He was not an athletic man, and he'd been on his feet the whole strange day. "The eclipse also caused me to think of V'lu." 
"Yes, back to V'lu." Claude grinned a sloppy Pernod grin. "Let me guess. This black face of the sun reminded you of , her. Reminded you that her ancestors in the jungle used fragrances of which we know little—" 
"Idiot. What I was reminded of, aside from things that are none of your business, was a remark she made. V'lu pointed out to me that the synthetics that predominate in perfumery today are practically all petroleum products. The price of crude oil is now subject to arbitrary decisions by the OPEC nations. V'lu suggested that since the Arabs are untrustworthy and since the future of the Mideast is uncertain, there is a strong possibility that petrochemicals will become even more scarce and expensive than natural materials. She suggested that we ought to be looking anew at the flowers." 
"That is elementary and quite sound," agreed Claude. "It is an idea with some merit, I don't have to be sober to recognize that. Fuck the Arabs, anyhow. Hang them from the drapes! And the draperies, too; yes, Bunny? But what I can't imagine is how this shopgirl—out of the mouths of babes, uh?—communicated this to you; I mean how could you even understand her, speaking in southern 
Negro dialect and all?" 
Marcel looked first at his cousin, then out the window again, focusing perhaps on that same invisible celestial footprint that had held his gaze all day. "I had no problem," he said. "V'lu did not express this to me in English, you see. She spoke flawless French." 
Mangel-Wurzel, Man Amour. 
PART II 
LOOKING UP CHOMOLUNGMA'S DRESS 
AS THE AFTERNOON PROGRESSES, OUR shadows grow longer. At night, in the dark, we become our shadows. That is as true today as then. In the old days, people were aware of it, that's all. In the old days, the whole world was religious and full of interest. 
Alobar had been at the lamasery twenty years when Kudra arrived, dressed as a boy. The lamas saw through her disguise immediately but put her to work moving stones. She had worked on the wall less than an hour before Alobar, too, realized she was a woman. Her shadow fell off of her with perfect discretion. Shadows do. It was her aroma that gave her away. 
They took their afternoon tea by the cold river. The lama who was overseeing the construction of the wall suggested that the workers disrobe and enjoy a dip. 
 
Alobar encouraged this idea, for it had been a long time since he had seen a naked woman. He found himself trembling. 
Kudra declined to swim. The lama persisted. "Come on, boy," he said. "Everybody must bathe or else the wall will fall down." In the high mountain air, there was mischief afoot. 
Finally, the "boy" dashed up to Alobar, who was just wading into the water, and whispered, "Help me, please. Don't you recognize me?" 
Of course, he didn't recognize her. Naked, he would not have recognized her. She had been eight years old when he had seen her last. 
"You called me by a foreign name. Wren, little Wrenna, I believe it was." Kudra smiled. "You haven't aged at all, you know." 
The icy water swirling around Alobar's ankles was causing his genitals to retract. He felt ashamed and wanted to turn his back. This mischief was a mistake. 
Kudra grasped his arm. "Remember? You tried to persuade me to eat a beet." 
Of our nine planets, Saturn is the one that looks like fun. Of our trees, the palm is obviously the stand-up comedian. Among fowl, the jester's cap is worn by the duck. Of our fruits and vegetables, the tomato could play Falstaff, the banana a more slapstick role. As Hamlet—or Macbeth—the beet is cast. In largely vegetarian India, the beet is rarely eaten because its color is suggestive of blood. Out, damned mangel-wurzel. 
Alobar was remembering. . . . 
He had been put off from the moment he sighted smoke. On a day so sultry that he moved through it the way an inchworm might move through a mound of lye, a day so bright that it sent his eyeballs retreating into the shade of their own sockets, he simply could not conceive of any advantage in torches. Surely torches could have waited until after sunset, although upon the sweltering Ganges plain it seemed to Alobar that one's sweat poured as profusely by night as by day. As he drew nearer to the flames, he realized that they were borne by mourners gathering for a funeral—all the more reason to detour to the cheerful 
 
cool of a grove. It should come as no surprise that the traveler from the west was, in funereal matters, slightly shy. 
The road, which had seen too many monsoons and forgotten too few, passed within yards of the funeral site, alas, and in the grassy savannas to the side of the road, Alobar had detected the odd hiss and slither, a persuasive inducement to stick to the well-worn path. Thus, he soon found himself in the midst of the white-clad mourners, an unwilling witness to unappetizing customs. 
Not far from the river, four tall beams had been planted in the ground to form the corners of a square. They supported four thick planks firmly held by mortises. Between the beams there lay a plexus of logs, arranged in such a manner as to leave a space in the center, into which wood chips and resin had been scattered. Around and upon the log pile, dry branches of the sort that might burn quickly and brightly lay in wait. The roof of the pyre was made of planks covered with turf. The end result was a kind of tinder shack, a cottage at which no insurance agent would ever call, a studio apartment of death. 
The corpse was placed in the middle of the square, upon the pile of logs. The dead man looked comfortable enough, all things considered (it bothered Alobar, philosophically, that the dead invariably seemed more self-possessed than the living), but obviously it only would be a matter of minutes before he began to char like one of those loaves the forgetful Frol was forever leaving too long on the hearth, an image that further hastened Alobar's departure. He had progressed but a few steps, however, before his path was blocked by a procession that, with great pomp, was leading a garlanded woman to the pyre. 
As the procession wound around the site, Alobar inquired of a mourner if the woman might be the widow. Hardly had the stranger nodded "yes" than the female moved slowly, but without hesitation, to the "door" of the pyre. A Brahman followed her and handed her one of the torches, with which she lit each corner of the square. Then, to Alobar's horror, she lay down beside her dead husband. 
It was with calm resignation, if not dim intelligence, that she at first regarded the flames that darted among the boughs like finches from hell, but when the heat grew more intense and she felt the early bites of pain, she cried out sharply and sat upright in her intended tomb. The Brahmans poked her with the long bamboo poles that they carried to funerals in case a widow should lose her enthusiasm for 
suicide suttee. A full panic seized her. She brushed the poles aside and made to leap from the square of fire. Using their poles, the Brahmans brought down the roof on her head, but her overheated adrenaline lent her a flash of superhuman strength, and she managed to spring from the blazing pyre and run, her sari smoking, toward the river. 
The Brahmans overtook her on the bank and wrestled her back to the pyre, which was now roaring like a furnace. While the woman struggled with the priests, the crowd screamed and yelled. To his surprise, Alobar noticed that he, alone, was cheering for the woman. Under a rash impulse to intervene, he was drawing his knife when three sturdy Brahmans pried her from the earth to which she clung and flung her into the middle of the inferno. She continued to struggle for a minute, parting the heat waves with her shrieks, but by the time Alobar reached the pyre, she was as still and silent as any log in the blaze. 
Shoving jabbering mourners roughly aside, holding his nose against the cannibal recipes that were pasting themselves in the air; scattering lotus garlands, hibiscus wreaths, rice balls, and milk bowls with kicks from what little was left of his boots, he barreled from the funeral grounds with an elephant's drive, and nothing, not Brahmanic curses nor the starched curtain of heat nor the craters and clouds of red dust in the road slowed him down. He might have continued at that pace for miles had he not come alongside a small girl, who was also fleeing the scene, sobbing hysterically. 
Alobar put his arm around the child and tried to comfort her. From the rags of his blanket roll, he fished a piece of honeyed coconut meat that he had been saving for his bedtime treat. The girl refused it, though her sobs subsided somewhat, and she rested her head against his side. When they reached a leafy mango tree, out of sight of hair smoke and lip ash and bowel cinders, Alobar sat her down, dried her tears, and sang for her his ditty about the world being, against all evidence, round. She took the sweet. 
Between bites, the child explained that she was unrelated to the funeral party but had come upon it by chance in the course of running a family errand. Thereupon she opened her basket and revealed its contents: a dozen round and ruddy roots, caked with loam. 
"Beets!" cried Alobar. "Aren't you the lucky one?" He smacked his lips. "You shall dine handsomely this night." 
The girl made a face. "Nobody eats these ugly things," she said. She went on to tell how her family boiled down beets for the color that was in them. Her father had dispatched her to gather this batch so that he might dye the strips of cotton cloth in which he wrapped the aromatic cones and sticks that he made and sold. She had been born, eight years earlier, into a caste of incense makers, and since business was flourishing at the holy sites along the Ganges where pilgrims bathed, and since she had but one brother, she was frequently called away from household chores in order to help in the trade. 
"Dye," grumbled Alobar. "A tragic waste of fine food." But his lament was short-lived. There was something about the girl more interesting than her beet basket. She was a miniature version of Wren! The longer Alobar looked at her, the stronger the feeling. Her eyelids, like Wren's, were as thick and languid as the peel of some pulpy fruit; ghe had the same chin dimple: a wormhole in a pear; the same occupied codpiece for a nose. As did Wren's, her lips parted reluctantly, like waters protecting an oyster bed, to slowly disclose the aquatic shelf of bright teeth behind them, and in the girl's eyes there fluttered illuminated parchments upon which intelligent things were written, things that Alobar could scarcely hope to read. She was two or three shades darker, and several sizes smaller, naturally, but he could not help but call her Wren, his little Wrenna, unaware that his wife had been murdered by the jealous necromancer Noog a few weeks after Alobar was carried feet-first from his citadel eight years before. 
"My name is Kudra," said the child. "Kudra, not Wren, and I believe I must go now." 
"Yes, you must," agreed Alobar, who was ashamed and alarmed at the way his cock was beginning to push against the folds of its tent. "I, too, must resume my trek." He pointed to the north, in whose far mountains there supposedly dwelt the teachers he had long been seeking, the masters over death. He related to Kudra only a modicum of his travel plans, but she was to remember them in times to come, just as she was to remember his parting testimony in praise of the edibility of beets and as she was to remember how he had turned and run after her, grasped her shoulders and made her promise, through a fresh outpouring of tears, that what had transpired with the widow at the pyre that day would never transpire with her. . . . 
 
"Bones are patient. Bones never tire nor do they run away. When you come upon a man who has been dead many years, his bones will still be lying there, in place, content, patiently waiting, but his flesh will have gotten up and left him. Water is like flesh. Water will not stand still. It is always off to somewhere else; restless, talkative, and curious. Even water in a covered jar will disappear in time. Flesh is water. Stones are like bones. Satisfied. Patient. Dependable. Tell me, then, Alobar, in order to achieve immortality, should you emulate water or stone? Should you trust your flesh or your bones?" 
Alobar had stared at the lama and said nothing. After several minutes, the lama had asked him why he remained silent. "Water babbles to stone," said Alobar, "but stone will not answer." 
From then on, they showed him some respect. 
When Kudra revealed herself to him at the river, Alobar dressed quickly and led her away. "Where are you going with that boy?" called the lama. "Come back here! We have many stones to move." 
"Stones are patient," Alobar replied. "I thought you knew." 
They climbed from the riverbed to a grassy outcropping, where they might find a bit of padding for their backsides and perhaps watch the mountains vying with one another to see who could be tallest. Chomolungma was winning. Chomolungma was what the world looked like when the world stood on tiptoes. Pale from the strain, blue from the lack of oxygen. The vegetation had all grown dizzy and slid down her back, snow swirled in perpetual spirals around her skull, she wore a glacier in her crotch like a sanitary napkin. 
"Could it be?" asked Alobar. "You are actually the child I met by the Ganges? Yes, I can tell by your chin depression, you are the one. Or else, her brother." 
Kudra removed her turban, allowing her waist-length hair to spill out. She unbuttoned her baggy phulu jacket and loosened her vest. Unbound, her breasts bobbed to the surface like jellyfish coming up to feed. She sighed with relief. Alobar sighed with appreciation. "It might be better if you remained a boy," he said. 
 
"Why is that?" 
"In this region, women are considered bad luck. They have a saying here: 'Dogs, children, and women are the roots of trouble.' " 
"Oh?" 
"They have another saying: 'If you pay attention to the talk of a woman, the roof of your house will soon be overgrown with weeds.' " 
"Is that so? Weeds, eh?" 
"They have another saying—" 
"All right, all right. I get the idea." 
"I am sorry. You must feel that it would be better not to be born at all than to be born a woman." 
"I am sorry. I don't feel that way in the least." 
"You don't? Then why are you dressed in this manner?" 
Kudra produced a boar-bristle brush and laid it to her tangles. In a moment, her hair was rippling and shining. Mount Chomolungma raised a few inches higher on her toes to see where that black glow was coming from. 
"I suppose I have always been pleased to be alive, female or not," she said. "These days I am more pleased about it than ever. Would you have any interest in hearing my story, or do you fear for your roof?" 
Alobar decided to be intrigued. Chomolungma, on the other hand, settled back down to her customary height of twenty-nine thousand, twenty-eight feet. On that spring day, sixty-eight pairs of snow leopards and eleven pairs of yeti had mated on her slopes. What did she care about a man and a woman trying to get acquainted? 
For weeks after her experience at the cremation grounds, Kudra had been 
 
troubled by nightmares. She would thrash and whimper until she would wake up the whole family. Some nights they would coo to her in soothing mantras and fetch her warm milk, other nights they snapped at her irritably. Her aunt threatened to make her sleep in the courtyard where the cow was staked, but her father objected that it would be rude to interrupt a cow at rest. While her mother was sympathetic, she could not understand the reason for the bad dreams. Suttee was a common practice, after all, and this was hardly the first time that Kudra had seen a widow join her husband's body on the pyre. 
"But . . . she ran away," sobbed Kudra. "A stupid woman," said her mother. "The life of a widow is worse than fire." 
"An evil, cowardly woman," said her father. "A husband and wife are one. Eternity depends upon them being together. A suttee woman is the heroic savior of her husband's eternity. Praise Shiva." Usually, her father saved his spiritual instruction for her brother. 
"Someday I will inform you about the life of a widow," said her mother. 
In time, the bad dreams ceased, although one day, several months later, when Kudra's parents returned from a cremation, she was unable to prevent herself from asking, "Did the widow try to escape?" Her father slapped her face. 
Nonetheless, the fiery dreams did fade, and inside rooms made of clay and painted blue, sweeter visions were nourished. At the start of monsoon season, when the great cloud ships rolled in from the sea to discharge their tanks of green rain in the rice fields and to haul away dust balls, scorpion skins, and mounds of worthless diamonds made of heat— summer's dolorous cargo— Kudra participated in the No Salt Ceremony. Each day, for five days, she dined in seclusion on unsalted food and worshipped tender seedlings that had sprouted from wheat and barley grains that she herself had planted prior to the ceremony. This ritual was to help psychologically prepare her for her designated role in life, the role of wife and mother, nurturing and sustaining her children, her husband, and the husband's relatives. 
In a universe that was perceived as inherently divine, where sacred animals munched sacred plants in groves of sacred trees, where holy rivers spilled from the laps of mountains that were gods, to nurture life was a lovely and important thing. Kudra enjoyed taking care of babies, and the notion of making babies 
excited her in some vague, itchy way. At age eight, she already was versed in the art of baking flat bread, and she was fast learning the secrets of the curry pot, with its fury and perfume. Her true delight, however, came in the hours when necessity called her out of the kitchen and into the workshop, to assist in one way or another with the manufacture or marketing of incense. She liked mixing gums and balsams more than she liked mixing rice and lentils, she liked rasping sandalwood more than she liked mending clothes. She did not consider why. As she grew older and the incense trade grew alongside her, she began to spend as much time in the business as in the household, and it never occurred to her that a conflict might be sprouting, like one of the ritual barley seeds, in the moist soil of her heart. 
When Kudra was twelve,^she and her brother accompanied their father on an ambitious business trip. It was a journey of nearly four months, during which Calcutta, Delhi, Benares, and many smaller towns were visited in an attempt to crack Buddhist markets, for the Buddhists had begun to use incense in greater volume than the Hindus along the Ganges. The trip left the girl gaga, goofy, tainted, transformed, her nose a busted hymen through which sperm of a thousand colors swam a hootchy-kootchy stroke into her cerebral lagoon. Now, whenever she smelled the gums, the balsams, and the special aromatics that arrived with merchants from afar, her head reeled with images of temples, shrines, palaces, fortresses, mysterious walls, tapestries, paintings, jewels, liquors, icons, drugs, dyes, meats, sweets, sweetmeats, silks, bolts and bolts of cotton cloth, ores, shiny metals, foodstuffs, spices, musical instruments, ivory daggers and ivory dolls, masks, bells, carvings, statues (ten times as tall as she!), lumber, leopards on-leashes, peacocks, monkeys, white elephants with tattooed ears, horses, camels, princes, maha-rajah, conquerors, travelers (Turks with threatening mustaches and Creeks with skin as pale as the stranger who had befriended her at the funeral grounds), singers, fakirs, magicians, acrobats, prophets, scholars, monks, madmen, sages, saints, mystics, dreamers, prostitutes, dancers, fanatics, avatars, poets, thieves, warriors, snake charmers, pageants, parades, rituals, executions, weddings, seductions, concerts, new religions, strange philosophies, fevers, diseases, splendors and magnificences and things too fearsome to be recounted, all writhing, cascading, jumbling, mixing, splashing, and spinning; vast, complex, inexhaustible, forever. 
It was then that she realized that it was the odor of the incense that had intrigued her all along, only now the smells filled in the fantasies that heretofore had been mere outlines, smeary contours scrawled in ghost chalk. Perhaps the most 
terrible (or wonderful) thing that can happen to an imaginative youth, aside from the curse (or blessing) of imagination itself, is to be exposed without preparation to the life outside his or her own sphere—the sudden revelation that there is a there out there. 
The day of Kudra's fifteenth natal anniversary began like any other, with a predawn bath in the river, followed by prayers to Kali and an offering of clarified butter in the courtyard cookfire. By first light, she had served breakfast to her father, brother, and one-legged uncle and was already washing the curds that would be the principal dish at the noontide meal. She was bent over the curd jars when, from the workshop, her father called for her, just as she hoped he would. 
"Honored father." She bowed to him, searching out(of the corner of her eye for 
some fresh basket of bosmellia bark, opopanox resin, nutmeg, or patchouli, for she had heard unfamiliar voices in the shop and suspected there had been a delivery. Nothing new was in evidence, but that was all right, she'd be content just to shave some sandalwood chips as she had several days before. The coarse- grained sandalwood was so tough it made her arms ache to chip it, but with each laborious push of the rasp, it propelled a zephyr of warm, 
clean, forest air past her nose, an invisible vapor that sang to her of the pad of the tiger's paw upon dry leaves, upon fallen parrot nests and dark Madras moss. 
"Kudra," said her father, "I have good news. Praise Shiva." 
Another merchandising trip, perhaps? Her imagination galloped about the room astride a sandalwood broom. 
"The parents of a respectable man were just here. We have arranged for you to marry him, come the monsoons. Praise Shiva." 
The broom crashed to the hard clay floor. Kudra began to cry. Her tears did not upset her father. He had expected them to flow. Every Hindu girl wept and wailed about her marriage, from its announcement through the wedding and into the honeymoon. It was fitting that a bride-to-be weep. Marriage meant that she must leave her father's home to live with her husband's family, who would treat 
 
her like a servant if she was lucky, like monkey shit if she was not. It was the way life was. Kudra's mother had bawled. Now it was Kudra's turn. Tradition and continuity were the flours from which the social loaf was baked; feeding the culture, pleasing the gods. 
"Father, I am not ready ..." blubbered Kudra. 
"Eh? Of course, you are ready. If you were not thinking about catching a husband, why would you fix yourself up in this way? Praise Shiva." 
The incense merchant was referring to the crimson lac with which she had begun to fresco her heavy eyelids, the sandal-wood paste that she finger-painted over her body in sinuous designs, the jasmine-scented unguents that these days lent her cheeks the glow of butter lamps at dawn. How could sl»e make him understand that what appealed to her was the aroma of these substances, that what she sought to catch was not a man but the strange and wondrous images that the aromas conjured? 
Teardrops spurted. "I—I—I want to work with you, I—I want to work here with you." Teardrops spewed. 
That hit her father where he lived. The fact was, Kudra was better help than her brother, better than her gimpy uncle, certainly better than .the lazy Sudra laborers whom he had started to employ. She was diligent and cheerful, and she had a feeling for the incense, not just an enthusiasm but a 
rapport. It was partly on her account that his business was prospering. Still, she was a girl, and everybody knew that girls were hotter than mongooses and certain to lose their virginity at the faintest hint of an opportunity. The way this one's breasts were inflating, the way her eyes had popped when she got a look at the erotic friezes at Khujaras, it was only wise to bind her to a husband before disaster struck. 
"Do not worry, my little patchouli drop. Your betrothed's family has a very fine business, praise Shiva, and is said to be shorthanded in the shop." 
That proved to be the case. But her husband's family did not make incense. It made rope. 

Rope. The gods have a great sense of humor, don't they? If you lack the iron and the fizz to take control of your own life, if you insist on leaving your fate to the gods, then the gods will repay your weakness by having a grin or two at your expense. Should you fail to pilot your own ship, don't be surprised at what inappropriate port you find yourself docked. The dull and prosaic will be granted adventures that will dice their central nervous systems like an onion, romantic dreamers will end up in the rope yard. You may protest that it is too much to ask of an uneducated fifteen-year-old girl that she defy her family, her society, her weighty cultural and religious heritage in order to pursue a dream that she doesn't really understand. Of course it is asking too much. The price of self- destiny is never cheap, and in certain situations it is unthinkable. But to achieve the marvelous, it is precisely the unthinkable that must be thought. 
So it was rope for Kudra. Rope drab in color, rope harsh in texture, rope utilitarian in design, rope barren in smell. In late summer, she would accompany others of the caste into the steaming hills to chop the fibrous stalks of bhabar grass. The rest of the year, when she wasn't busy with household duties, she sat on the ground next to her husband, combing fiber into ribbons, spinning ribbons into yarn, twisting yarn into strands, and braiding strands into rope. Rope to keep the cow from deserting the farmer, rope to prevent the riverboat from running away to sea, rope to teach the individual stick of firewood the strategy of the bundle, rope to hold a young wife to a bedpost, an oven, a lurid panoply of gods. 
In the streets of Calcutta, she had seen a fakir make a rope rear up like a cobra. Uncoiling from a basket with a dancing motion, the rope rose until its end was higher than the treetops, whereupon the fakir shinnied up it and disappeared in the sky. Now, as yard after yard, mile" after mile, of rope wound through her blistered fingers, she strained to exert some influence over it, tried her best to will it skyward so that she might climb it, stopping periodically to wave goodbye to her mother-in-law, and cast her lot with the clouds. 
Alas, the rope moved strictly horizontally, and then only when physically forced. Conditioned as she was, Kudra probably wouldn't have climbed the rope, anyhow, let's face it. Besides, she had established a couple of escape routes that allowed her to ascend above the world of in-laws and bhabar fiber. One was scent. Her father kept her supplied with natural aromatics, which she turned into oils and essences to lavish upon her body. Whether she was loading the rope 
cart, carrying out slops, or scraping cow dung from her mother-in-law's shoes, Kudra was enveloped in a portable fog of fragrance, entwined with a rope of perfume up which she could shinny and partially, at least, disappear. Since it was traditional among Hindus that one way to Shiva was through the nose, and since in India there was no such thing as too much piety, her in-laws could not object, although sometimes they fell into coughing fits when she passed by. As for Navin, her husband, he may have been publicly embarrassed by his bride's excesses, but in private he was enflamed. Navin's prurient reaction to the smells of his wife widened her second avenue of escape: sex. 
Kudra took to the marriage bed the way a water buffalo takes to a mud wallow. Like any conscientious merchant-caste groom, Navin had studied the Kama Sutra, the Hindu love manual. Since he was thirty when they were wed, twice the age of his bride, he had had time to learn it by heart, and indeed he was well acquainted, in theory if not in practice, with the eight kinds of embrace (four mild, four hot), the four parts of the body that the handbook taught might be individually embraced, the three ways of kissing an innocent maiden, and the four angles from which it might be accomplished; the sixteen ways of kissing a wife (including the moderate kiss, the pressed kiss, the soft one, the contracted one, the clasping one, and the "kiss of the hungry donkey"); the eight kinds of love bites, the eight kinds of scratch marks that might be left on the body (the Kama Sutra even described how a lover's nails should ideally be manicured), the eight stages of oral intercourse, the nine ways of moving the penis inside the vagina, and the forty varieties of sound that might be uttered the while (including thundering, weeping, cooing; words of praise, pain, and prohibition; and the sounds of the dove, the cuckoo, the green pigeon, the parrot, the sparrow, the flamingo, the duck, and the quail), as well as more than thirty coital positions, with names such as "the fixing of a spike" and "the place where four roads meet." If all that education, aspects of which smacked of arithmetic, ornithology, carpentry, and animal husbandry, suggests that Navin was overqualified for the job of satisfying a teenage virgin, well, it must be recorded that at no time did Kudra complain of overkill. If she was not his equal in technique, she compensated in fragrance and enthusiasm, and night after night they dissolved their rope burns and fatigue in the salty flux and radiant slime of the glad-hearted fuck. 
It is hardly surprising that the couple had four children in five years. They might have had still more had not the mother-in-law decided that the house was becoming too crowded and introduced Kudra to pennyroyal's application as an 
oral contraceptive. 
Kudra loved her babies. One day, a dozen years into the marriage, she came to love her husband, as well. It happened on the morning after the festival of Mahashivaratri—the Great Night of Shiva—when, weakened by fasting and loosened by a kind of spiritual hangover, Navin revealed to Kudra that he adored horses and that during his youth had entertained the impossible dream of miraculously transcending Vaisya, the merchant caste, and ascending to Kshatriya, the warrior caste, 
so that he might ride. The admission of his ridiculous longing shamed him, but Kudra was touched to learn that, like her, Navin had a blasphemous desire locked away in his breast. It made them partners in a new, more intimate sense, and whenever she thought about his secret, she would reach across the rope bin to pat him tenderly. She did not share her own hidden dream because she didn't know how to articulate it. She only knew that it made her restless, that it smelled good, and that it was always there. 
About a month after Navin's disclosure, a column of warriors paid a call at the rope shop to order some fancy, customized bridles, braided with bells and tassels, for their steeds. Kudra drew the leader aside and charmed him into offering Navin a ride. 
"Oh, no, no, I could never," protested Navin. 
"Go ahead," Kudra urged. "This is your chance. Just as far as the temple and back." 
The army officer, who had his eye on Kudra's ripe hips, helped Navin aboard and gave the big horse a whack that sent it off at a gallop. Navin, terrified, leaned too far forward and sailed off into a rock pile. His head split like a milk bowl, sending forbidden ambition, mixed with blood and brain, trickling into the public light. 
During the next few days, Kudra seriously considered joining Navin's corpse on 
  
the pyre. It was not because she blamed herself for his demise—guilt is a neurotic emotion that Christianity was to exploit to fullest economic and political advantage; Hinduism was healthier in that regard—but because face to face with widowhood, she learned that her mother's dire description of it was, if anything, understated. 
From the moment of her mate's death, a widow was under the tutelage of her sons, even if, as in Kudra's case, the sons were mere boys. She could never remarry, and were she to engage in illicit sexual activities, the Brahmans would administer to her a whipping- that would expose the white of her bones. Prohibited from returning to her parents, she must remain with her husband's family, and while she would be expected to perform household chores from dawn to dusk, she could never attend the family festivals that played so big a part in Hindu life, for a widow's gloom would bring bad luck to everyone present. For all intents and purposes, a widow was an ascetic, shaving her head, sleeping on the ground, eating only one meal a day and that without honey, wine, or salt. She could wear neither colored garments nor ornaments, she could not use perfumes. 
The ban on perfumes was, for Kudra, the final straw. She found herself nodding in agreement when a delegation of village Brahmans enumerated for her the spiritual advantages of suttee. When the priests left, she ran after them to inquire how long they thought it might take for her to be reincarnated. Not wishing to interrupt their conversation, she followed them silently down the dusty road and overheard them speculating about the worth of her jewelry. Upon suttee, her personal belongings would, by law, go to the Brahmans. One priest was of the opinion that Navin, like any good merchant-class husband, had lavished gold and silver ornaments upon his wife, and that they could scarcely afford to let Kudra forgo the funeral fire. 
Kudra felt her entrails turn on an axle of lead. The Sanskrit alphabet, heavy- footed and squirmy, sang itself out in her belly; a cobra's tongue swam across the waters of her eyes. As the landscape blurred before her, she could see with pristine clarity the widow in smoking sari being pulled from the riverbank and dragged, screaming, back to the pyre. And she remembered then her promise to the pale-skinned stranger that such a fate would never be hers. 
That night, the eve of cremation, after the household was fast asleep, she dressed herself in her nephew's clothing. She laid out her jewelry for the Brahmans, so 
that they might be less inclined to pursue her. She wrapped some flat cakes, rice balls, and coins in a silk scarf. Then she undid the package and added a hairbrush and several ivory vials of perfume. Then she unknotted the scarf a second time and, without consciously thinking why, put in a small pouch of pennyroyal. As warm vanilla moonlight creamed through the windows, she knelt before her crude little personal shrine, offered a bowl of ghee to the goddess Kali and begged for forgiveness. 
She knelt before Navin's casket and begged the same. She kissed each of her children in his sleep. Keeping to the shadows, she slipped from the house, stopping in the yard only long enough to kick with all of her might a flabbergasted basket of rope. 
"So you ran away from death," said Alobar. He was obviously pleased. Kudra's flight brought back memories of the two times he had ducked the swipe of the Reaper's sickle. It meant that he and this woman had something in common, something revolutionary and scandalous that bound them together out on the edge of behavior where the bond is tightest and sweetest. 
"No," said Kudra. "I did not run away from death. How can a person run away from death? And why would a person want to? Death is release. I did not flee death but the corruption of the Brahmans." 
"Nonsense! Do you mean to tell me that had the Brahmans been interested in your eternal soul instead of your bangles, you would have dived into the flames?" 
"Well ... I have much fear of flames." 
"Suppose they had wanted you to drown yourself, then. Would you have gone to water more gladly than to fire?" 
"Yes. No. Oh, I do not know! Drowning is not such a good way to die." "What is a good way to die?" "In your sleep, I suppose. When you are old and your children are grown." 
 
"Oh? Old and in your sleep? After a lifetime of hard work and ill treatment? And how old is old? Is it ever old enough? You could have accepted the painful life of the widow and died unappreciated in your sleep at the age of forty, you could have chosen that instead of the fire, that option was open to you, but you ran away from that, as well." 
"You are shaming me. Do you bid me return?" 
Alobar put his hand on her shoulder. It was the softest thing he had touched in years. The heat of her flesh, wafting through her boy's jacket, caused fish eggs of perspiration to pop out on his palm. "Not in the least," he said. "I merely want you to admit that you do not wish to die. Not even if it is Shiva's will, or Kali's will, do you wish to die. You want to live and, what is more, you want to live decently and happily, you want to live a life that you yourself have chosen. Admit that, now, and you shall be rewarded." 
Kudra eyed his fingers suspiciously. They were kneading her shoulder and seemed to be of a mind to migrate south. "And what is to be my reward?" 
Sensing her mistrust, he removed his hand. "The comfort and protection of a kindred spirit." 
"How can you protect me? Can you not see, I am certain to be reincarnated as a spider for what I have done. A spider or a flea or a worm." She shuddered. 
"All the more reason to live a long, enjoyable life while you are still human." 
"Now I shall probably have to endure a hundred more lifetimes before I reach nirvana and gain my final release." 
"What difference does it make if you live a million more lifetimes? At least, you can enjoy this one." 
"To believe in the reality and permanence of the fleeting everyday world is foolish." 
"Then why are you here and not in the ash heap at the cemetery?" "Perhaps because I am a foolish woman." 
"Good." Alobar smiled. "My own foolishness could use some company." 
Kudra smiled, too. She didn't mean to smile. It just happened. The smile was an embarrassment to her, as if she had belched or broken wind. She tried to drive the smile away with thoughts of her sorrowful experiences, her disgraceful behavior, her insecure situation, but this was one smile that didn't scare easily, it hung in there like a tenant who knows his rights and refuses to be evicted. Finally, Kudra turned away, but Alobar could see her smiling through the back of her head. 
"What is your name again?" Alobar moved closer to her. 
"Kudra." The word swam out through her smile like a blowfish swimming through a crack in a reef. 
"Mine is Alobar." He slipped his arm around her and 
cupped her left breast. It was heavy and jiggled in his hand as if it were full of liquid. Melon water. Or beet juice "The grass is soft here, Kudra." 
"A mattress is softer. It is not my habit to copulate in the grass like an animal." 
"Well, you had better get used to it. I mean, if you are going to be reincarnated as a bug ..." 
"Unhand me, please. I am a widow and do not even know you." The smile was gone now, although whether it had drawn back inside her head or flown off toward the ices of Chomolungma was anybody's guess. 
"You know me well enough," said Alobar. Reluctantly, he dropped the satin coconut. He imagined that it gurgled when he let go. "Did not you come up into these mountains looking for me?" 
"Not exactly. Back then when I was a child, you informed me that you were traveling to the Himalayas in search of masters who had power over death. When I ran away, I had no place to go, and I thought I must make my way to Calcutta to become a woman of the streets, but first I decided I would have a look for these masters myself. You were kind to me back then, and the promise you extracted from me influenced my decision not to submit to suttee. Partly because of you I took a less virtuous path. But there is a limit to how much 
virtue I shall allow you to talk me out of." 
"If being alive is not a virtue, then there is little virtue in virtue, that is what I say." 
"Disgustingly enough, I am finding joy in my continued presence in this world of illusions." She turned to face him. The smile came back, surprised them both, then left again abruptly without saying good-bye. "Tell me, Alobar, are these lamas you live with the masters whom you sought? And have they taught you the secret of life everlasting?" 
"Um? Well, er, in some ways, I think . . . I'm not sure. Uh-" 
"What do you mean? Are they or are they not? Have they or haven't they? They look like Buddhist monks to me, and where I come from, Buddhists die just as regularly as everybody else." 
Alobar stood up and gazed at the mountains for a while. 
The mountains looked like the white picket fence around the cottage of eternity, although Alobar clearly thought about them in another way entirely. Perhaps he thought of them as storehouses stocked with thunderclap hinges and earthquake parts and dusty bolts of lightning; perhaps he saw them as just another opportunity for the gods to make him seem puny and weak and mortal. In any case, he stared at the peaks for a while, and then he turned back to Kudra. 
"When I crossed the border from your land into this one, I asked some herdsmen where the great teachers lived, and they answered, 'At Samye,' so I made my way here. I knocked at the gatehouse of the Samye lamasery, and some men in red robes took me in and gave me food and tea, they heated buckets of water with which I bathed myself, and they supplied me with warm clothes and boots, for my own were in tatters and felling off me. Then they asked what I wanted—I was a curious sight to them—and I replied, 'I wish to live a thousand years.' They looked at each other, and then one of them asked, 'In this body?' And when I said 'yes,' they shook their heads and clucked their tongues. They said they could not help in the fulfillment of my vain, misguided wish, and that after a good night's rest I must be on my way. As I was leaving the next morning, one of them, Fosco, a painter of poems, whispered to me that I might get what I was looking for from the Bandaloop doctors. He said I could find these personages in the foothills caves back down toward India. So I thanked him and off I went." 
"But you didn't find them, these Bandaloopers?" 
"Oh, yes, I found them, all right, although it was not easy. They had no fine stone buildings, as they have here at Samye, but lived in a honeycomb of caverns, for off the main path." 
"But you found them?" 
"Yes. Or, rather, they found me. I was resting in a ravine one day, thinking, 'Oh, how I wish I had something to eat,' when suddenly I was pelted with ears of corn. Hard. Very hard. Made my nose bleed and my ears ring. I drew my knife and looked up at the cliff whence the corn had come, and there were three hairy men dressed almost as motley as I, laughing at me. I shook my blade at them, and they yelled, 'Well, you said you were hungry.' " 
"Praise Shiva. How did they hear your thought?" 
"I intended to find that out. After I roasted and ate the corn, I sniffed out their trail and tracked them to a hillside riddled with caves. 'You must be the Bandaloop doctors,' I said when several of them approached. 'You must be Alobar,' one of them replied. 'How did you learn my name?' I asked. 'How did you learn ours?' he shot back. 'A Samye holy man told me,' I said. At that, they all had a hearty laugh." 
"They strike me as rude." 
"Rude? Yes, they were plenty of that. But, you see, a long time ago, far off in the west where I come from, I met two rude characters, one a shaman, one a god, and though each treated me disagreeably in the beginning, one gave me special courage, the other special fear, both of which I required for this journey that I am on. Those who possess wisdom cannot just ladle it out to every wantwit and jackanapes who comes along and asks for it. A person must be prepared to receive wisdom, or else it will do him more harm than good. Moreover, a lout thrashing about in the clear waters of wisdom will dirty those waters for everyone else. So, a man seeking knowledge must be first tested to determine if he is worthy. From what I have gathered, rudeness on the part of the master is the first phase of the test." 
"You mean, if you allow the master to be uncivil, to treat you any old way he likes, and to insult your dignity, then he may deem you fit to hear his view of 
things?" 
"Quite the contrary. You must defend your integrity, assuming you have integrity to defend. But you must defend it nobly, not by imitating his own low behavior. If you are gentle where he is rough, if you are polite where he is uncouth, then he will recognize you as potentially worthy. If he does not, then he is not a master, after all, and you may ,feel free to kick his ass." 
"Interesting. Is that how it went with the Bandaloop doctors?" 
Alobar shook his head. "No," he said. He took another long look at Chomolungma and the runners-up in the world's tallest mountain competition. The sun was starting to sink, and the peaks were pinned with colored clouds, like ribbons designating where each had placed in the contest. It was fairly easy to spot the winner, and numbers two and three. Miss Congeniality was a bit more difficult to identify. "No, that is not the way it went with the Bandaloop doctors. They were alternately hospitable and antagonistic. They would pour me milk to drink, then drop a turd in the cup. They would flatter me, then spit in my face. They would ignore me, then as I made to leave, they'd implore me to stay. It was damnably confusing. And there was no question of kicking ass. They invited me to strike them, but they were so quick I could not lay a hand on them. Their movements were imperceptible, yet they were always a fraction of an inch to the left or right of wherever I aimed my blow. Not one of them touched me, but I beat my own self bloody missing them and falling down." 
"You were humiliated." 
"My lady, that is an understatement. In my own land I had a reputation as a warrior." 
"Did you leave then?" 
"I was too winded to even crawl away on my knees. They gave me some oil for my scrapes and scratches and invited me into the caves. What do you think it was like in them? Sharp rocks, cold water dripping from the ceilings, bats screeching by in the darkness? Oh, no, those caves were covered with beautiful carpets and tapestries, thick and warm and opulent. Every nook and cranny glowed with butter lamps, and in little saucers powders were burning that caused the air to smell like orange groves and gardens." 
"Incense!" exclaimed Kudra. 
"Whatever. And there were women inside preparing spiced lamb and heating wine. Everyone drank wine until their eyes were red. They also smoked pipes of ground-up leaves from the hemp plant—" 
"I know the plant. We made rope from it. Smoked it, you say?" 
"Yes, and it seemed to make them dreamy. They would stare into the fire, laughing for no apparent reason. They offered me a pipe, they offered me wine and meat, they even offered me a woman, or two women if I chose. Of course, I refused. I thought it was a trick, a test of my purity. I fell asleep alone, splitting with desire, only to be awakened in the middle of the night by a bucket of icy water emptied upon my head. Well, then I got out, let me assure you. I was angry and confused—and scared. Because, Kudra, no hand held the bucket that dumped that water on me, the bucket was suspended in midair, just tipping itself on me of its own accord." 
"Alobar, you were confused, all right. Or else dreaming. Or . . ." She lowered her eyelids, lids that resembled purses sewn from the skins of thick, dark grapes. "Or you are telling me a fable." 
"It is all true, I swear it." 
"Then I suppose I must believe you. Tell me, did they permit you to leave freely?" 
"One of the company—there were perhaps a dozen of them in all, not counting the women—followed me outside to inquire about my intentions. I told him I thought I would return to the Samye lamasery. 'Good,' he said. 'You will learn much there. Then you can come back to us.' Well, that heated me up, to be sure. 'There are not enough demons in this world or the next to drag me back to this accursed place,' I yelled. I swore that I would never return. He laughed and reached into my clothes and pulled an egg from where no egg had been. He cracked the egg on the ground, and a huge dog bounded out of it—it looked exactly like Mik, my own dog from my own city that I had not seen in the span of eight Feasts of Feasts. It licked my feet in a familiar way, and then it ran into a cave and disappeared. ..." 
"Alobar!" 
"I swear it to be true." "Remarkable. And did you run after it?" 
"Oh, no. I staggered off into the night and eventually did, indeed, return to Samye, where you have caught up with me. I wanted to forget the whole experience with Bandaloop. Unfortunately, it has remained alive in my mind." 
"But you have never gone back?" 
"I made a vow. If we mortals can better the gods in no other way, we can at least keep our promises." 
"Why did you return to Samye?" 
"I do not know for sure. When I arrived, I asked to see Fosco. He entered the gatehouse with his calligraphy brush in his hand, and I seized him by his robe and shook him until ink flew. 'Why did you send me to that crazed place?' I demanded. He answered me mildly. 'The Bandaloop doctors are much despised by my superiors, and I risked reproachment for directing you to them. They practice a base, orgiastic form of religion that we cannot condone. But they are powerful magicians and healers and fortune-tellers, and I thought they might assist you in your obsession with your earthly vessel. Forgive me.' Fosco was so obviously sincere that it behooved me to ask his forgiveness. Not only did he grant it, he persuaded the abbot to let me remain at Samye as a laborer and student. It appears that I have been here a long time." 
Kudra looked him over. "Samye has agreed with you. You appear healthy and strong. I did not lie when I mentioned down at the river that you have not aged since I saw you last. Perhaps you are receiving here the knowledge you were after all along. What have the lamas taught you that would keep you in their tutelage for twenty years?" 
"You really think I have not aged? We had a magic glass back at . . ." His voice trailed off, held hostage by memory. Bound, gagged, and blindfolded with a swath of ermine ripped from a concubine-stained bedspread, his voice lay in an unlit corner until memory collected its ransom or else took pity. The sun had sunk so low that it was looking up Chomolungma's dress by the time Alobar's freed voice resumed its normal life. "There are no mirrors hereabouts. The river shows me how to shave, but it shows me little in the way of skin condition or hair color. Hmm. It pleases me, what you say." He sat down, and once again he touched her shoulder. She did not pull away. 
"I have found peace here. Years of one sort of turmoil or another had rubbed against my spirit until it was raw, but it has been healed by tranquillity, a calm that comes from within as well as without. The architecture, the painting, the sculpture, the music and liturgy and refined garments, but most of all, I think, the meditation, the hours each day of sitting silent and motionless, these things have smoothed my frayed edges and left me floating through life like a toad bladder in a mountain stream. The lamas have suffered endlessly from my resistance to their dogma and strict morality, 
but I daresay we have all benefited. I have grown serene, and they, well, many a ton of stone has been moved for them, and they have been kept on their toes. Ha ha." 
"Am I to assume that they have not instructed you in the practice of long life?" 
"Not openly. They speak to me occasionally on the subject, but they obtain their ideal through gradual stages of spiritual progress. And their ideal is neither immortality nor longevity, but release from the cycle of birth, death, and rebirth." 
"Yes, yes. That is my people's ideal, as well. Do you foil to appreciate the perfection that lies at the heart of that goal?" 
With his free hand, Alobar scratched his head, a head herringboned with equal parts chestnut and silver, like a cow pie on a frosty morning.- The other hand held fast to its roost on Kudra's shoulder. "Frankly, I do not appreciate it as deeply as I probably should. Or, maybe it is that I long not for the perfect but for the complete, and there is something incomplete about a life that is dedicated to escape from life." 
"Please, explain." 
"Here they teach that much of existence amounts only to misery; that misery is caused by desire; therefore, if desire is eliminated, then misery will be eliminated. Now, that is true enough, as far as it goes. There is plenty of misery in the world, all right, but there is ample pleasure, as well. If a person forswears pleasure in order to avoid misery, what has he gained? A life with neither misery nor pleasure is an empty, neutral existence, and, indeed, it is the nothingness of the void that is the lamas' final objective. To actively seek nothingness is worse than defeat; why, Kudra, it is surrender; craven, chickenhearted, dishonorable surrender. Poor little babies are so afraid of pain that they spurn the myriad sweet wonders of life so that they might protect themselves from hurt. How can you respect that sort of weakness, how can you admire a human who consciously embraces the bland, the mediocre, and the safe rather than risk the suffering that disappointments can bring?" 
Alobar was surprised by the ferocity with which he felt himself attacking the teachings of the men who had pacified him for the past two decades. Perhaps his need for Kudra was whipping long-smoldering dissatisfactions into flames. For her part, Kudra could not locate the words with which to defend her faith. Perhaps her faith had been taken from her. She looked at Alobar and said nothing. He accepted her silent gaze as encouragement to continue his diatribe— and to inch his fingers towards orbit of her coconut moons. 
"If desire causes suffering, it may be because we do not desire wisely, or that we are inexpert at obtaining what we desire. Instead of hiding our heads in a prayer cloth and building walls against temptation, why not get better at fulfilling desire? Salvation is for the feeble, that's what I think. I don't want salvation, I want life, all of life, the miserable as well as the superb. If the gods would tax ecstasy, then I shall pay; however, I shall protest their taxes at each opportunity, and if Woden or Shiva or Buddha or that Christian fellow— what's his name?— cannot respect that, then I'll accept their wrath. At least I will have tasted the banquet that they have spread before me on this rich, round planet, rather than recoiling from it like a toothless bunny. I cannot believe that the most delicious things were placed here merely to test us, to tempt us, to make it the more difficult for us to capture the grand prize: the safety of the void. To fashion of life such a petty game is unworthy of both men and gods." 
Alobar paused to consider what he'd said. He had not given voice, even 
inwardly, to such thoughts in years, although one day, watching a yak calf gambol about the rocks like a goat, he asked himself what the Great God Pan might think of the Buddhist way of life. The answer promoted a prolonged twinge of discontent. 
"The lamas declare that they have no fear of death, yet is it anything less than fear that causes, them to die before they die? In order to tame death, they refuse to completely enjoy life. In rejecting complete enjoyment, they are half-dead in advance—and that with no guarantee that their sacrifice will actually benefit them when all is done. They are good fellows, and I must respect their choice, but fullness, completion, not empty perfection, is this fool's goal." 
"I take it that if the Bandaloop doctors were to give you another go at their provisions, you would not this time abstain?" 
"There is the matter of quality, my lady. Have I implied that a person must abandon discretion in what he enjoys, then my tongue, or your ear, has erred." 
As if to correct the one or the other, he thrust his tongue into the nacreous coils of her ear, smothering all the while her breasts with his hands, lest their rocking motion somehow interfere with the process of correction. Her right ear thusly plugged, her left nevertheless clearly heard a donging back at the lamasery. 
"I'm famished!" she announced, springing to her feet with such force that for a moment he feared she'd taken his tongue with her. "I do hope that is the dinner bell." 
Reluctantly, he led her down from the .outcropping, whose grass was destined to go unmoistened by their mingled dew. She was reassigning her hair to the turban as they walked, and frequently stumbled, on the uneven ground. She was thick- thighed, broad-hipped, and heavy-breasted, but so slender of waist that a snail with a limp could circle her beltline in two minutes flat; in short, she manifested the Indian ideal of the woman built for physical satisfaction, and while Alobar had developed slightly different standards, he could not help but watch wide- eyed as this turbulent culture of flesh fought to gain control over its barbaric frontiers (bouncing breasts, swinging buttocks) and consolidate into an integrated empire as it slipped and slid down the hillside. 
Much as the departure of daylight had turned the mountains into violet silhouettes, so had the departure of inner peace silhouetted Alobar against the 
overcast of his frustration. He was in such a funk that when he fetched a dish of buttered barley to the rockpile outside the gatehouse, where the "boy" Kudra waited, he completely missed the significance of the pennyroyal that she sprinkled on her food. 
Alobar took his simple meal with the lamas, as was his custom. After dinner, with Fosco's assistance, he found Kudra a place to sleep in the stable. 
"I apologize," Alobar said, "but this is the way women are regarded around here." 
"I am used to that," said Kudra. "The way you regard women, however, is more of a novelty to me." She squeezed his hand. "Come back when the moon is above the stable," she whispered. 
Alobar went outside and walked around in the Himalayan night, the dark at the top of the stairs. The thin, crisp air vibrated like a hive with the chants of the lamas. White stars pimpled the atmosphere. It was easy to imagine that the stars were bees, that they were the source of the ubiquitous lama-buzz. It was easy to imagine that the pale crescent moon was the beekeeper's paddle, dipping into the hum and honey. 
The nightful of chanting was soothing to him in the way that the sound of a turning screw would one day be soothing to men at sea. In those days, boats were only as noisy as the winds that drove them, and there were no sailors in the Himalayas, of course; there were not even leafy trees that could unfurl flotillas of little sails, as green as mermaids' curtains. Himalayan winds blew snowflakes about, and grass seed and panda hairs and the serious, droning vowels of lamas. 
Alobar had, himself, learned a chant. The abbot had given him the syllables personally. The chant transported him to a place inside himself impervious to gales or breezes, a place as unruffled as the abbot's shaved noggin, as smooth as Buddha's belly. That night, however, he felt more inclined to sing that little ditty he had made up long ago, the one that went: The world is round-o, round-o. . . . Obviously, it was the dusky widow who was reviving in him those old sensations. 
Kudra had awakened him from a long sleep. No, that was false, he hadn't been 
 
asleep at Samye, he had been in a state of heightened awareness, but there is a sense in which awareness can be as stagnating as sloth. His stay at the lamasery had become a rut, a tranquil, nourishing, educational rut that had done him little harm and much good, but a rut, nonetheless; his wheel was stuck in a ditch of light, so to speak, and he felt an overpowering urge to steer in the direction of darkness. If the earth needs night as well as day, wouldn't it follow that the soul requires endarkenment to balance enlightenment? 
In any event, Alobar had lost his calm satisfaction only to gain a kind of anxious, electric joy. Whether it was a temporary state, tied to the licentious yearning that Kudra had reawakened in him, or whether it signaled the end of his serene years as Samye's token pagan, he could not ascertain. What he did know was that the lunar rooster was crowing on the stable lintel now, and that, inside, the fugitive widow had some need or other of him. 
It is said that when a man is anticipating sexual activity, his whiskers grow at an accelerated rate. Alobar might have to stop and shave before we reach the end of this paragraph. Before the last of the chanting dies out behind the high walls and the condensed breath of a dozing yak momentarily fogs the page. 
Having finished a bath in a pony trough, Kudra was debating whether or not she should squirm back into her nephew's clothes. There was a chill in the May night that had set her to shivering, but the prospect of pulling those soiled, unfeminine garments over her glistening brown body was less inviting than goose bumps. Besides, Alobar would only undress her again, would he not? 
She was resigned to having him mount her. She would have preferred to postpone, if not avoid it—with so many things to sort out in the head, the body must be regarded as a distraction—but he was as bent on carnal embrace as a pilgrim was bent on the Ganges. To see him again would be to roll around with him, and she simply must see him. 
He is overwhelmingly exciting, she thought. Then she added, Not in any sexual way, of course. He excited her because he was as damned as she was, yet had no regrets. He actually made damnation seem attractive. She had heard of men who rejected the gods, who professed not to believe, but here was a believer who refused to grovel, a man who stood up to Shiva, to Buddha, to the gods of his 
 
own race, whoever they might be, who stood right up to them and demanded an accounting for a system in. which pleasure must be paid for with pain, a system in which the only triumph over suffering was hard-won oblivion, a system that offered its captive audience little choice in matters concerning duration of performance. 
The Brahmans could explain away such complaints; she was well acquainted with their explanations, and, furthermore, she believed that they were right; she just wasn't in the market for theological justifications, not anymore. She was a sinner now, and her options were these: she could repent and pay the certain price, or she could cast her lot with this handsome heretic and see where it might lead. Oh, did she call him "handsome"? She didn't mean to say that, although he wasn't bad to look at, now that she'd mentioned it. It didn't bother her that he was over sixty, he was fit and youthful, and besides, Hindu women customarily were paired with older men. Not that she had any notion of being paired with him, you understand. 
Perhaps the gods were sympathetic to Alobar's demands. Perhaps they were considering alterations in the divine order of things. Perhaps it was a mistake, an oversight, that human beings had been granted short, unhappy lives, only the error had never been corrected because no one had ever openly complained before. No thunderbolt, in any case, had struck Alobar down. Another thought occurred to her, then, and it stacked goose bumps upon her goose bumps. Had Alobar been spared out of indifference? What if the gods had not even noticed his rebellion? 
For the moment, it didn't matter. What mattered was that she was caught up in something large and important, or so it seemed. She felt that she had embarked on an adventure far greater than the merchandising trip that she'd taken with her father, that wondrous journey that had erected a towered city on the scrubby plane of her brain and spoiled her for a life of normal, sedentary wifehood for all time. 
Pale moonlight was seeping over the stable eaves and puddling on the surface of the pony trough. Alobar's arrival was imminent. Good, she could inquire further about those Bandaloopers, the magic that they practiced, and the secrets that they knew. That was why she had invited him back, for that and for no other reason. Let it be known. 
Suddenly, he walked through the door, catching her unaware, not even dressed yet. Kudra recalled later that he had rushed up to her, although the ponies, the moon, and the trough water remembered it another way. At any rate, there was no denying that she was in his arms, that her tongue was sliding about in his mouth, and that her hand was groping for something perpendicular—praise Kali —in the general vicinity of his groin. 
Something was wrong. Instead of an elephant prod, Kudra found a braid of hemp. Was rope to be her destiny? Alobar was limp enough to knot, and even now he was pulling away from her embrace. 
Bewildered and embarrassed, she grabbed a shredded old pony blanket and tried to cover her nakedness. "Is it my color?" she asked. 
"What about your color?" 
"A horse cannot mate with a cow. Is it possible that a fair-skinned man is incapable of intercourse with a dark-skinned woman?" Kudra had slept with only one man in her life and had experience neither with impotence nor rejection. 
"No," said Alobar. The idea made him snort. "I had a reputation, in fact, as a man who relishes dark meat." 
Kudra thought, You also had a reputation as a warrior, to hear you tell it, but you did not fare too well against the Bandaloop. She asked, "Is it my nose, then? Perhaps its size offends you." 
"You are lucky to own such a fine large nose. It will serve you as a rudder and steer you through the troubled waters of life." 
Was he sincere? She had never considered her proboscis in that regard. "Well, I must have been too forward: my kiss, my tongue ..." 
"A new experience for me, I do admit." "Truly?" "Yes, this 'kizz' as you call it is unknown in the west. A rather odd sensation, but 
 
one I would not object to repeating. I have an open mind." 
You need only open your mouth not your mind, she thought. But she said, "Then why do you spurn me?" She adjusted the worn-out blanket in an attempt to protect a larger area of her body from the evening's chill and Alobar's gaze. 
"To be absolutely frank, it is your smell." 
"My smell?!" She was incredulous. "But I have just bathed and rubbed myself with fragrant oils. You were willing enough to take me in the grass, when I was caked with grime and sweat; I saw the bulge in your robes; yet, here on the soft, private straw, when I am clean and perfumed ..." 
"You smelled fine up there on the hill, you smelled like a woman. Right now you smell like one of those little piles of powder they burned in the caves; you smell like a—like a fruit bush!" 
They worked it out. It was back to the trough for Kudra, to scrub the jasmine and patchouli scents from her skin, whereupon, Alobar, whose wives and concubines had known little of the science of the bath and nothing of the art of perfumery (save for the rare spices they sewed in their harem cushions), sniffed her from head to heel, pronouncing her, if not arousing, at least inoffensive. With a little help from her rope-yard-deft fingers, he commenced to wax. And wax. And wax. Until she squealed. 
"Did not I explain that I was once a king?" 
A king you are still, she thought, vowing never again to doubt his various reputations. 
Within the hour, the molecules reaching his nose were more to his liking, although the sounds in his ears—dove, cuckoo, green pigeon, parrot, sparrow, flamingo, duck, and quail—destroyed any illusions he might harbor that he was on familiar ground. 
Later, by what little moonlight that remained, she cataloged five types of scratch marks on his shoulders and back. To him, they each stung the same. 
 
"I would like to read this Kama Sutra," said Alobar. "Except that I cannot read." 
"Nor can I. But I can teach you those of its contents that might benefit you most. Unless you object, I will demonstrate rather than recite." She had had four orgasms and was feeling assured. "For now, however, you must tell me more of the Bandaloop doctors." 
"There is nothing left to tell." "You mean that you never heard of them again?" 
"Oh, stories about them abound, but their veracity. . . . Actually, something happened once ..." 
"What happened, Alobar?" 
"One spring, on the pass south of here, there was a snow slide. Travelers were buried. Some of us from Samye went to help dig them out. We removed several bodies, frozen stiff, which we laid on the side of the road. After a bit, one of them stirred. It was a female. She stood and stretched, and thanked us and walked away. Just walked away. Fosco must have noticed that I was stunned, for he put a hand on me and whispered, 'She was a Bandaloop woman.' That was all that was ever said about it. The rest of the victims behaved the way corpses ought to." 
Kudra, propped on her elbows, shaking her head in amazement, said, "And she was merely one of their women." 
"Yes." 
"Hmmm." She lowered herself into the straw, her rump in the air. The last moonbeam of the evening was snagged in the tangle of her pubic moraine. Alobar reached in from the rear, as if to free it. Like a careless animal on the lip of a tar pit, his middle finger slipped and sank quickly from view. Kudra writhed automatically, then lay still. Her mind was off somewhere. Her body and Alobar waited patiently for its return. He fell asleep with his hand still in place. When the lamas awoke him, well after sunrise, his finger was waterlogged. But Kudra was gone. 
 
One thing about moving out of a Tibetan .Buddhist lamasery, you don't have to hire a cart. Alobar's worldly possessions—a tea bowl, a change of clothing, and a knife that in twenty years had been used only for shaving—were packed in a flash. He bid farewell solely to Fosco. Fosco put down his brush, folded his inky hands upon his belly, and regarded Alobar affectionately. The little lama did not seem surprised by the departure, but rather hurried him to the gate, where, looking into the only blue eyes the Himalayas had ever known, he said something so incomprehensible that Alobar was ready to delay his leave to get to the bottom of it. Fosco withheld any explanation, however, and soon Alobar was winding down the mountainside, pausing every few hundred yards to glance back at the placid walls of Samye. Stone remains, water goes, he thought. For once, at least, he knew where he was going. 
In less than a day, he caught up with Kudra. She was squatting by the path relieving herself when he rounded the bend. She leapt to her feet in midstream and threw her arms about him. 
"I knew you would follow me," she said, with the kind of confidence some women exude when they sense that they have made a clean capture with the vaginal net. 
"You left without a word," he said. Her kiss, so wet and exotic upon his unpracticed Western lips, vented much of the steam from his accusation. 
"I feared that you would talk me out of it. You have talked me out of several things already, including my widow's virtue and my obligation on the funeral pyre." 
"Praise Shiva," he said mockingly. 
"Praise Shiva," she repeated, after a long pause, and with more than a hint of the poignant. 
She still had not pulled up her boy's trousers, and Alobar kneaded her bare, piss- damp thighs. "You made it impossible for me to remain at Samye," he said. 
"Your stories of the Bandaloop made it impossible for me to remain there." "So, your destination was the caves." 
"My destination is the caves. And you are going with me." 
Any protest he might have uttered was drowned out by the fluttering of the pages of the Kama Sutra, dog-eared pages with notes in their margins, which she taught Alobar to read with his one oozing eye, the Kama Sutra being a book that usually opens in the middle and begins at the end. 
When the volume had been wiped and placed back on the shelf, they again took to the path. Irrigated by snow-melt, the recently awakened grass on the slopes glittered like spinach between the teeth of the hard earth. Far below them, in deep, narrow gorges, streams worked themselves into a lather, roaring like all the seashells in the world turned inside out; and above, great cold peaks in mineral armor were trying to smash the sky. Step by step, the path led them down and away from this terrible beauty. 
"I have been considering," said Kudra, a tad out of breath, "what you said about desire." 
"Ah," said Alobar. "And now you agree that the devotee's desire to be without desire is the most insidious desire of all." 
"Not exactly, Alobar. Look at it this way. The word desire suggests that, there is something we do not have. If we have everything already, then there can be no desire, for there is nothing left to want. I think that what the Buddha may have been trying to tell us is that we have it all, each of us, all the time; therefore, desire is simply unnecessary." She stopped to catch her breath. "To eliminate the agitation and disappointment of desire, we need but awaken to the feet that we have everything we want and need right now." 
Alobar thought, She is a smart one, smarter even than Wrenna, whom she resembles in odd physical ways. And her vulva is as clever as her speech. I was right to pursue her, though I must be careful that her power does not turn against me, and I must come between her and those sickening oils she likes to smear upon her flesh. 
Aloud, he asked, "Do we have everything, you and I?" 
They were descending into a small valley. The valley had clouds tipping into it, and the clouds were dark, as if bruised by the jagged thrusts of the peaks. One cloud was so black that Chomolungma herself might have battered it. The wind 
was at their heels and beginning to bark. 
"I have lost my husband, my children, my people, my faith," said Kudra. "Yet I feel that still I have everything. Everything, at least, that I deserve. Brrr. It is growing cold." 
"A storm is building," said Alobar. "There is one thing we have not, and it is that thing we are obliged to desire." 
"And that is?" Kudra buttoned her vest against the first blown drops of gelid rain. 
"Some influence over the unknown tribunal that sentences us to die against our wishes. A reform of that law that decrees death a certain consequence of birth." 
The wind had grown so strong it practically rolled them down the path. When Kudra said, "I cannot tell if that be the one valid desire or the greatest deception," she had to yell to be heard. "Perhaps we shall have our answer from the Bandaloop. " 
"The what?" 
"The Bandaloo-oo-p." The word sailed away on the wind, its vowels banging together and scattering, its consonants tearing the lips of the word like the bit of a runaway horse. 
There proved to be no shelter in the valley, not even a boulder leaning at a protective angle, so Alobar and Kudra pressed on. Soon, they were regaining altitude. By nightfall, the rain had turned to snow, the last blizzard of the Himalayan spring. Should they continue to walk, they might topple into a gorge; should they stop, they might freeze. They walked, keeping to a pace just fast enough to promote circulation. 
When dawn finally came, it was only a stain in the sky. Kudra prayed to Shiva and Kali, separately and together, and while looking for a signal from the gods that light was still on their payroll, she crashed into the trunk of a Yunnan pine that a gale had muscled into the presumed path. She had to sit in a drift until the pain subsided, Alobar draped over her like a human tent. The kneecap swelled up until it was as round as one of her breasts and as tight as a devil drum. She leaned against Alobar and, she hobbling and he shuffling, their bellies agonizing 
and their energy all but gone, they reentered the mainstream of the storm. 
Within two hours, he was not so much supporting as dragging her. She was babbling about sandalwood groves, and marketplaces where crumbs of jasmine flower blew about the streets like music. Although his fingers were numb, he sensed them losing their grip on her. 
"Please hold on. Kudra, please hold on. Please, Kudra, please, Kudra, please." 
The trail was descending again, but if his calculations were correct, they were yet two days from the foothills. Three days, if the weather didn't break. An eternity, if she couldn't get back on her feet. 
"Please, Kudra. It won't be long. ..." He bit his blue lip against the falsehood. "It won't be long until we reach the caves." 
She wailed. The cry was so similar to the wails of the widow on the cremation fire that a huge horror seized him, a horror shot through with adrenaline, and he picked her up in his arms and began to run with her. 
The horror changed into a kind of giddiness. This must look ridiculous, he thought, though to whom it looked ridiculous he failed to name. He must have meant Death, for in a minute he conceded, "Death has trapped us, that's for sure, but he shall not take us sitting still." And, as the pageant of his life, no less ridiculous than this mad dash in the snow, flashed before him, he laughed and laughed. 
Almost immediately the wind fell quiet, like a drunk who has passed out in the middle of a rage. The sun burned through and set about boiling clouds into dumplings, then into gravy. 
With Kudra somewhat revived, they made the foothills in little more than a day. It was practically on their hands and knees that they covered the final mile. But nobody greeted them. The caves of the Bandaloop were empty and bare. 
Alobar gathered wood and built a fire. In the process of drying their damp 
  
clothing, they slipped into unconsciousness and did not awake for hours. When his eyes did open, Alobar arose and remade the fire. He recognized some herbs not far from the caves, picked them and steeped a strong, green beverage in his bowl. After taking tea, they went to sleep again. This sequence was repeated numerous times, until upon a sunny morning, perhaps four days hence, they found themselves sitting .in a cave mouth, wide awake and reasonably nourished. 
Concluding his account of how he had swept her up and 
run with her, Alobar ventured the opinion that they had survived because he reached a point where he did not take his desire to live seriously. "My desire was no less than before, you understand, but I no longer identified with the desire. Perhaps that is why desire causes men calamity. By identifying with our desires and taking them too seriously, we not only increase our susceptibility to disappointment, we actually create a climate inhospitable to the free and easy fulfillment of those desires." 
"Maybe," mumbled Kudra, stretching her sun-warmed muscles until the elastic shuddered pleasurably and a mindless animal happiness collected in a pool at the base of her skull. Alobar is a glorious man, she thought lazily, but this constant prattle about the meaning of things can make a person tired. 
Mistaking her reticence for incredulity, Alobar said, "I suppose you think I made it all up. About the Bandaloop, I mean." 
In tandem, they turned their heads to stare into the cave, where rock was as raw as a lump in the throat and bats orbited the dead star of a dank ether. 
"I believe you." "You do?" 
"Much incense has been burned in these caves. The traces are faint, but I can smell it." 
"I cannot tell you how happy it makes me to hear you say that. But where—" 
"It no longer matters," Kudra said firmly. She retrieved a pine bough and, favoring her sore knee, began to sweep the entrance way. "The immortals are 
gone. Now we are the immortals." 
That night they made love on a bed of bhabar grass, the twisting of her hips nearly weaving it into rope. She progressed from orgasm into dream without skipping a beat, but Alobar did not so quickly sleep. His arms pillowing his head, he lay beneath the echo circles of the bats and wondered about the former occupants of the caves. In certain ways, he was relieved that they were missing, yet in the velvet shadows of his heart, he sensed that he must someday deal with them, or others equally disturbing: infinity, apparently, did not travel safe highways or join in polite company. But those strange, strange words of Fosco s, what could they possibly have meant? 
Fosco, the plump little poem painter, had looked into Alobar's uncomprehending eyes and said: 
"The next time you encounter Bandaloop, it will be a dance craze sweeping Argentina in 1986." 
SEATTLE 
HERE IT COMES, across the stars, eating worlds, sucking the energy out of atoms and suns; here it comes, bullets can't kill it, dogs can't bite it, it refuses to listen to reason; here it comes, it just ate a hydrogen bomb. Oh, my Lord, here it comes, heading our way! nightmare asteroid, maniac vacuum, transcosmic pig- out; can't stop it, drunk on photons, burping pizzas of poisoned plutonium. It wants our oil, it wants our beautiful lumps of coal, it wants Air Force One, Graceland, and the wash on the line; it will slurp every erg, gnaw every volt, unless. . . . It trashed our magnetic laser net, barbed wire is useless, napalm a treat, can't evade it, can't divert it, only this little boy can stop it; big blue eyes, 
 
mustard on his T-shirt, this adorable towhead with the discount dirt bike and the horny mom; only Jeffrey Joshua and his fuzzy teddy bear, Mr. Bundy, stands between us and galactic oblivion; can he . . . ? 
Priscilla was watching a TV movie in the bar at El Papa Muerta. She and several other waitresses had completed the setups in the dining room and were awaiting the 5:00 P.M. opening (Seattleites dined early). Ricki was behind the bar, having been promoted recently to assistant bartender. 
Priscilla was watching the movie and not watching the movie. Ricki noticed the part that was not watching and came over. "Have a hard night in the lab?" 
"Matter of fact. There's gonna be nothin' but hard nights until I can afford the stuff I need." The "stuff" Priscilla needed was high-quality jasmine oil. It came from France and cost six hundred dollars an ounce. Priscilla figured she needed a minimum of three ounces, to begin with. That would take care of the middle. The^ thete -vnyM sttii t>e \ke matter of matching the base note. What was that goddamned base? Sometimes she wished she had left that bottle where she found it. 
"Go ahead, tell me your troubles," said Ricki. "As a novice bartender, I need the practice." 
Priscilla sighed. She watched a swoosh of rocket exhaust. The TV color needed adjusting, and the rocket blast was as pink as a nursery. She could have used a jet assist herself, even a soft pastel one. "Ricki," she said, wearily, "do you ever pray?" 
"Pray?" "Yeah, pray." "Sure I do, honey. I pray all the time." "Well, when you talk to God, does he answer?" "Absolutely." "What does God say?" 
Ricki glanced around her. The bar was starting to fill up with customers waiting for the dining room to open. "Have you noticed," she said, "that you and I are the only Mexicans in this place?" 
"I'm Irish and you're Italian. Ricki, be serious. What does God say?" 
"God says the check is in the mail," answered Ricki, moving to the waitress station where the cocktail girl stood gargling a mouthful of orders. 
In a busy restaurant bar, a waitress must order from a bartender in a particular sequence: neats, rocks, waters, sodas, Sevens, tonics, collins, Cokes, miscellaneous mixes, juices, sour blended, creamy blended, beer, and wine. This was partly to aid memory, partly to facilitate arrangement of glassware, mainly to prevent the mix from one drink from tasting in the next (should a bit of 7-Up spill, in the rapid firing of the bar gun, into a collins, it wouldn't be detected, whereas Coke would definitely intrude). 
"Jack/soda, tall; four 'ritas, a sunrise, a Dos Equis, and a Bud." 
A bartender's beauty is in his moves. Like a lover's, like a matador's. The finished product means little: a spent orgasm, a dead bull. Satiation and stringy beef. To be sure, there are drinks of fine workmanship and drinks of poor; there are coherent ramos fizzes and incoherent; there are martinis in which the gin is autonomous and martinis where integration and harmony of ingredients prevail; bloody marys can suffer high blood pressure or low. Yet Priscilla had never heard a customer complain of a drink, unless it was to impress a companion, unless there wasn't enough booze therein, and at El Papa Muerta, at least, there was always enough booze. 
A bartender's beauty is in his moves, in the way he struts his stuff, in the field of rhythms that is set up in the orchestrated hatching of a large order of drinks. A skillful barkeep no more looks at his accoutrements than a practiced typist or pianist peers at the keys, but works with both hands simultaneously, full blast, undimmed by the usual dull requirements of routine. (Even in a lull, with only one drink to mix, he will not slacken his pace nor take a glyptic approach.) When he snatches a bottle from the well, he knows, without looking, that it is grenadine and not triple sec, and if it should prove to be triple sec, too bad, dad, the drink is already mixed. Stirring and sloshing, rinsing and wiping, pouring and garnishing, with a fry cook's retention and an acrobat's timing, he virtually 
dances through his shift, skating, as it were, on the chunky ice he scoops with furious delicacy into each glass. The regular at El Papa Muerta was a master of bar dance, he consumed the space around his station, he had speed, presence, and finesse; his output was huge. Ricki had a lot to learn'. Her style was kinky. Ugly and odd. But Priscilla sensed that Ricki would be a good one in time. To her advantage, she was impatient with small stuff and detail, and with the fussing and adjusting that the dilettante in any field tries to substitute for inspiration and thus rescue his art. She had a capacity for the grand, and it was with some faint concept of eventual grandeur that she set about to mix the first order of drinks on that autumn evening, her arms—and her mood—arched to parallel the natural curve of flowing liquid. 
"Jack/rocks, C.C./water, vodka martini, five 'ritas, one grande, one strawberry; and a draft. That martini takes a twist." 
It has entered our solar system. It's becoming our solar system! If that kid doesn't make contact , . . What's that? His teddybear is missing?!?! 
Priscilla closed her eyes and slipped into a crack between the bar noise and the movie noise, where, under her coffee-scented breath, she prayed; asking God, in whom she only marginally believed, what to do about the formula, what to do about Ricki's lust and love. She closed, out of habit, with an "amen," not knowing for sure what "amen" really meant, but suspecting that when God finally ended the world his big boom-boom voice would not bellow "amen" but "Tha-tha-tha-tha-that's all, folks," a la Porky Pig. 
Into the dining room she went, virtually limping with fatigue, screwing up her face with distaste at the diners being shown to their tables. What kind of gourmet would trust a Mexican restaurant where the entrees smelled like ketchup and the waitresses wore sailor dresses? It was a long way from the perfect taco. Five minutes later she was back in the bar, placing her first drink order. 
"Two sloe gin fizzes, two fast gin fizzes; three martinis, dry, no starch; twenty- eight shots of tequila, three beers (a Bud, a Tree Frog, and a Coors lite), seven rum separators, five coffee nudges, two Scotch and waters, five vodka and buttermilks, a zombie, a zoombie, four tequila mockingbirds, thirteen glasses of cheap white wine, a mug of mulled Burgundy, nine shots of Wild Turkey (hold the stuffing on three), one Manhattan (with eight cherries), two yellow jackets, fifteen straitjackets, thirty-seven flying dragons, nine brides of Frankenstein, and 
a green beret made with 7-Up instead of sweet vermouth and in place of grenadine, banana liqueur. Amen." 
The fraud backfired. Before Priscilla had reached the end, Ricki was in full panic, and even after Pris said, "Make that two margaritas, grande; and a Carta Blanca," Ricki just stood there, up to her elbows in glassware, looking as if she'd had the brain electricity sucked out of her by the black hole, which on the TV, had stopped eating Grand Coulee Dam and was sharing a granola bar with Jeffrey Joshua. There was at least one tear in her eye. "That was a rotten thing to do to you on your first shift alone," Priscilla apologized. Then she whispered, "Take your break at nine-thirty, if you can. I've got a special treat for us." 
But, of course, Ricki wanted something more than the pinch of cocaine, and Priscilla found herself, during break, in the ladies' stall with her panty hose down around her knees. 
"I'm sorry, I guess I'm pretty dry." 
"That's okay," said Ricki. "I'm like a cactus. I can make maximum use of minimal amounts of moisture." 
A loud rap on the restroom door caused them both to jump. "Pris. Pris, are you in there?" Priscilla pushed Ricki away and hurried to pull up her Danskins. "Pris, there's a delivery for you from Federal Express." 
It was with mixed emotions that Priscilla headed for the reservations desk. On the one hand, she was relieved to get out of Ricki's grasp; on the other, she was afraid of what that delivery might be. She had received mysteriously almost a dozen beets at her apartment. What if they started to show up at work? 
The Federal Express envelope contained no raw vegetables, however, but a fancy, engraved invitation, requesting her presence at a dinner party honoring Wolfgang Morgenstern, the Nobel prizewinning chemist. The dinner was to be held at the Last Laugh Foundation. This was even more puzzling than the beets. Priscilla, who had completed but one year of her chemistry major, knew Dr. Morgenstern by reputation only, while, aside from the war room at Boeing 
Aircraft, the Last Laugh Foundation was the most exclusive turf, the most inaccessible sanctum in Seattle. 
"Why me?" she asked. "The Last Laugh Foundation," mused Ricki. "That's that immortality place." "I know. Ricki, do you believe in immortality?" "I'll try anything once." 
The cocaine was leaning on the doorbell in Pris's tummy. She was buzzing at the same frequency as the orange auras that had begun to pulsate from the pseudo- Guadalajara wrought-iron light fixtures. Physically, at least, she was primed to return to the dinner trays, freighting what she'd sworn to one diner was "the most authentic Mexican cuisine north of Knott's Berry Farm." 
"You aren't upset with me, are you?" 
Ricki looked her over. "No," she said. "I realize that you're just jealous that I got the barkeep job. They couldn't have put you in there, Pris. You're too scatterbrained and too clumsy." She turned on her flat heel and walked away. 
Priscilla made it through the shift without crying or praying, although, befuddled by the invitation and bruised by Ricki's remark, she concentrated on her duties with difficulty. So badly did she mix up orders that two tables didn't tip her. That was no way to earn three ounces of jasmine oil, let alone to earn three years of omphaloskepsis, which was what the doctor ordered (or did the doctor order the smothered burrito?). 
Bicycling home at midnight, she pedaled five blocks out of her way to pass the Capitol Hill townhouse in which the Last Laugh Foundation was headquartered. It was a stately old mansion, charming of cupola, angular of gable, a university's worth of ivy clawing the ivory paint from its boards, a high, stucco wall topped with broken glass protecting its grounds. As usual, there were people at its gate, trying, in one manner or another, to get past the security guards. However, whereas a month before there might have been ten people at the gate, now—in the middle of a damp November night—they were lined up to the end of the block. 
Curious, thought Priscilla, promptly pedaling over a steep curb, spilling her bike, ripping her panty hose, and scraping her leg. 
By the time she reached home, attended to her wound, shampooed, and donned her dirty lab coat, she had put both the invitation and Ricki's insult pretty much out of mind. From the bathroom cabinet, she removed a Kotex box and checked under the pads to ascertain that the bottle was still hidden there. She did not remove the bottle, however. What was the use? 
She needed help, but God was in a meeting whenever she rang, and the Daughters of the Daily Special had postponed her grant almost as often as she had postponed going to bed »vith Ricki. With Ricki, her sponsor, turning hostile, Priscilla had to assume that the grant might never come through. 'Well, shit," she said. "Shit shit shit. I've got no choice but to make that call." 
She shoved the Kotex box back in the cabinet, pulled on some stiff jeans, dipped a fistful of coins from the fishbowl, ind ran down the hall, not even looking to see if she might lave run over a beet. It was late, but she knew that her party lad a habit of working into the night. Her finger was trembling, But she managed to dial. 
The wall phone swallowed the quarters, Priscilla swallowed her pride. "Hello, Stepmother," she said. There was a pause. Then: "Where are you?" 
Madame Lily Devalier always asked "Where are you?" in a way that insinuated that there were only two places on earth >ne could be: New Orleans and somewhere ridiculous. 
NEW ORLEANS 
WHEN WE ACCEPT SMALL W ON D E R S , we qualify ourselves to imagine great wonders. Thus, if we admit that an oyster—radiant, limp, succulent, and serene—can egress from a shell, we are ready to imagine Aphrodite exiting from a similar address. We might, moreover, should we have that turn of mind, imagine Aphrodite exuding her shell, constructing her studio apartment, its valves, hinges, and whorls, of her own secretions, the way an oyster does, although the average imagination, it must be said, probably would stop someplace short of that. 
"Oh, no, Miz Lily, Ah not be putting no raw oyster in mah mouf! Ah eats cold soup wif you, Ah eats libber spread wif you, made from goose libbers, but Ah not be eatin' no slime." 
"Really, child! How inelegant." 
Madame Devalier replaced upon its bed of rock salt and cracked ice the half- shell whose contents she had been about to slurp, and, while waiting for the word "slime" to cease its vile reverberations in her mind's ear, she poured herself another glass of champagne. 
"To Papa's fat," she said. 
"We done drink to fat three time," said V'lu, raising her own glass of Nehi orange soda, to which Madame Devalier had added, under protest, even though it was a celebration, a squirt of hurricane drops. 
"Very well, then. To Bingo Pajama." "To Bingo Pajama," V1u said wistfully. "Wherever him po' soul be." 
"Now, cher, you mustn't worry your pretty head about that crazy Jamaican. I am confident he can take care of himself." She sipped. She studied the circle of shellfish, each ritzy blob glistening upon the lustrous floor (or ceiling) of its own intimate architecture, the solidified geometry of its desire. The oyster was an animal worthy of New Orleans, as mysterious and private and beautiful as the city itself. If one could accept that oysters built their houses out of their lives, one could imagine the same of New Orleans, whose houses were similarly and 
resolutely shuttered against an outside world that could never be trusted to show proper sensitivity toward the oozing delicacies within. She sipped again. If one could accept the exaggerated fact of the oyster, one could imagine the exaggerated fact of Bingo Pajama, who had disappeared after the policeman who attempted to arrest him for selling flowers without a permit had been stung to death by bees; one could imagine that Bingo Pajama would keep his promise to bring them still more jasmine, the laborious but successful extraction of whose essence had occasioned this little celebration on Royal Street. 
The telephone rang. 
"I'M get it," said Madame, somewhat surprised that the dusty phone remembered how to ring. There was an odd look on -her face as she pried her bulk from the depression in the love seat, much as the counterman at Acme's had pried open the oysters a half-hour before. When she returned to the rear of the shop five, maybe ten, minutes later, her expression was even more odd. She looked to be sad, but gay about it; or gay, but sad about it. Sad, gay, it was all the same to V'lu, whose immense brown eyes were becoming somnambulant, if not squamulous, a sure sign that the hurricane drops were beginning to take effect. 
"Priscilla was a Mardi Gras baby," Lily said, out of the blue. "Have I mentioned that?" 
"Yes, ma'am. You sho' 'nuf have mentioned that." 
"A Mardi Gras baby." She drained her glass, regarding the oysters now with no appreciable indication of appetite. "Conceived one Mardi Gras, abandoned the next." 
"Who she mama?" "Pardon?" "Ol' Wallet Lifter she daddy, who she mama?" 
"Her mother." Maclame sighed into her empty glass. "You know, V'lu, I no longer remember her mother's real name. She was from a good Irish Catholic family, lived in a fine house in the Garden District, I know that. But the devil will bite a young girl if she gives him a spot, and he sure took a nibble of this one. She could have watched the parade from her veranda, they lived right on St. 
Charles, but, no, she had to come down to the Quarter, mix with the so-called artists— she loved those artists—and that is where Wally spotted her. He seduced her on the street, under the crepe paper skirts of a float that had stalled." 
"Revern" Wallet Lifter." 
"That's what the cynics called him, yes. The Reverend Wally Lester was what he called himself. From the Irish Channel, poor white trash, more than likely, but he wasn't dumb. I never actually heard him preach, but he must have been fairly good, he had the looks and he had the tongue. Traveled throughout Texas; Oklahoma, too, conducting revival meetings in a circus tent; overdramatizing the word of God, turning the Scriptures into a cross between German opera and a hockey game, as only a Protestant can do. Then, every year, about a week before Mardi Gras, never fail, he'd suddenly show up in the Quarter. Oh, nobody enjoyed Mardi Gras more than Wally. He'd go on a rip that lasted well into Lent. After everybody else had wound down, he'd still be bouncing off barroom walls. Next thing you knew, though, he'd be gone; he'd go down into Mexico, some said after women, some said after gold—he obviously had more luck with the women. In any case, by Easter Sunday, he would be back to preaching, setting up his plastic pulpit on top of half the prairie-dog holes in Texas. Until Mardi Gras, when he would return to the Quarter and start the whole thing all over again. Sacrebleu." 
"Yo oysters be gitting warm, ma'am," V'lu announced dreamily. Ignoring her, Madame- Devalier went on telling her things about the Reverend Wally Lester that she'd told a dozen times before. "Warm slime don't taste nowhere near as nice as cold slime," said V'lu. She smiled, revealing a mouthful of small, iridescent teeth. If oysters drove cars, their hood ornaments would look like V'lu's smile. 
"The girl traveled with him for a season. She gave birth in his air-conditioned trailer, parked in one of those awful towns where jackrabbits hop down Main Street." Lily made a face. "I've always maintained that Priscilla got off to a bad start by not being born in New Orleans." She refilled her glass. "More champagne? Oh, I forgot. I'm sorry." 
"Ah 'pose dat be Miz Priscilla on dee phone?" "I'll never forget the day they came back. The minute they hit town, she gathered 
up her things and jumped on the first streetcar to the Garden District, although they managed to have le combat before she got away. Wally brought the baby by the shop so that I could see her, and there were claw marks on his cheek, the blood was barely dry. He rubbed the baby's bare bottom over the scratches, as if that would heal them. A few days later, he brought her by a second time and asked if I would watch her while he 'administered to those sinners who mock the true Christian meaning of Mardi Gras,' as he put it. It was a year before I saw him again. His face had healed without scarring." 
"Why you?" 
"Why me? Why did Wally leave her with me? Well, I suppose he trusted me. You see, he used to hang out at the shop—" 
"He like you?" 
A blush stained Madame Devalier in the way that debits color the ledgers of a failing business. "No, no, he wasn't interested in me personally. Even then I was too old and stout. I was born old and stout. He was interested in the 'work.' He wanted to learn the 'work,' although what an evangelist would do with it I never understood. I sold him some—some items. He was the only white man I ever sold to." 
An oyster Cadillac rolled into view, V'lu Jackson incisors sparkling, leading the way. "Hee hee hee. OI' Wallet Lifter be jazzing up Jesus wif some drops." 
"Romance powders and money mojo were more in his line, but that's neither here nor there. I agreed to rear his child, because . . . well, I was convinced that I would never marry, and because I thought I could use a girl in- the shop, someone to help, you see, someone to teach perfumery to. That didn't work out, of course. Priscilla always loathed the shop, and I never had the assistant I needed until—until you." 
It might have been V'lu's turn to blush; whether she did or not we'll never know. She did manage a proud pursing of the lips, however, and then she asked, "Dat Miz Pris on dee line?" 
"She was not a brat, you understand. In fact, she would make a sincere effort every now and again to follow in my footsteps, as it were. She was careless and messy, broke a lot of things, but she'd work hard. Then Mardi Gras would come 
around and, sure enough, here's Wally. He'd bring her armloads of presents: lollipops and pralines, all sorts of sweets, and dollies and stuffed animals and tricycles and, later, bikes, and the cutest clothes: little dotted-swiss dresses with ruffles and sashes. She thought her papa was rich, she believed that with all of her heart, and Wally encouraged it, the swine. When he left she'd beg him to take her with him, but-he'd tell her that he had to go south of the border to attend to his gold mines and that Mexico was no place for rich little American girls. Man Dieu, how it killed me to watch her fight back the tears! For months afterward she'd be moody and morose, claim that the smell of perfume made her ill." 
Lily poured the last of the champagne. Briefly, she regarded the uneaten oysters, which, although beginning to look increasingly flabby, lay in perfect repose upon the remaining hemispheres of the dream houses in which they'd once enjoyed such exquisite solitude. Two strong hands and a steel blade were required to storm the privacy of the oyster's dark entrance hall. It takes a team of four horses to force the giant clam of the South Seas to yawn against its will. Every passive mollusk demonstrates the hidden vigor of introversion, the power that is contained in peace. 
"About that time the shop started to lose money. I went to Paris with my formulas and was brutally rejected. LeFever showed interest, but eventually it, too, turned me down—" 
At the mention of "LeFever," a blush actually did seep through V'lu's protective pigmentation, spreading upon her 
carob complexion like an oil slick on the muddy Mississippi, and even though her nervous system was, by hurricane drops, entertained, she flinched. 
"—after stringing me along, and with not so much as a franc for my time and trouble. I should never have left New Orleans. I was depressed after that, I admit, but Priscilla was worse. At least I kept a roof over our heads, dealing in items I had rather not discuss. Priscilla wouldn't turn a hand, just talked about her papa all the time, how he was going to come and give her this and that, buy her a sports car, pay for ballet lessons, move her into a big house with a yard, until finally I had to tell her the truth about the Reverend Wallet Lifter and his Mexican fortune; I had no choice, V'lu." 
V'lu was still recovering from the dent that the reference to the French fragrance 
house of LeFever had kicked in the fuselage of her midnight airship. She perceived that her mistress needed comforting, but "She believe you?" was the extent to which she could respond. 
"No, she didn't believe me, but she never forgave me, either. Oh, I suppose deep down she may have believed me. In any case, Wally's next visit was a stormy one, and did little to improve our financial situation. Six months later, she ran off and married that accordion player." 
"How old her be den?" "Sixteen." Madame shook her head and clucked. "Sixteen." "He hab plenny money." 
"He had some money. Priscilla imagined that it was plenty. And money was what she wanted. I mean, he was pushing forty, not exactly your dashing Latin lover, and she was such a pretty little thing—and so smart in school! His band, it was one of those South American tango fandango bands, was fairly popular for a while. They traveled all over, from Puerto Rico to the New York state mountains, playing in resort hotels. He claimed he was going to train her to dance with his troupe. I can't fathom how either one of them could have believed that for an instant. Man Dieu, the girl has two left feet!" 
"Him go he home, though. Overseas." 
"Yes, his band eventually folded, and he returned to Argentina alone, but I believe she had already left him by then. She left him right after Wally passed away." 
"Her come watch she daddy die?" V'lu knew perfectly well that Priscilla had been at her father's deathbed, she'd heard the story more times than there were beets rotting under her cot, but she was disposed to hear it again. 
"Pris was there at the end. Wally took sick in Mexico and had the decency to come back to New Orleans to expire. He was rather far gone when Pris and I got to Charity." Madame crossed herself, ringed fingers flashing like UFOs over the summits of her mountainous breasts. "The second we walked into the ward, though, he opened his eyes. His eyes were heavy and feverish, rather like yours are right now. He stared at Priscilla for quite a while before he spoke." 
"Whut he say?" 
"He said, 'You're startin' to turn out like your ol' daddy, darlin'. A novelty act.' That hit her like a brick. 
"Then he recognized me and winked. He was only fifty, but he looked sixty-five. 'Stay in touch,' he said to me. 'Have you ever . . . ?' 
"He closed his eyes and folded his arms on his chest; you could almost see the life ticking out of him. He sighed, kind of sweetly, and a contented smile softened his face. He muttered something. Then he was gone." 
"Whut he mutter?" 
"He said, "The perfect taco.' That's it, those were his last words. He sighed, 'Ahhh,' and said, 'The perfect taco.' " 
The two women were silent for some time, maybe meditating upon the mystery of it all—the life, the death, the goofiness—maybe, in V'lu's case, in communion with a private totem. The oysters, those tender masters of sequestrable engineering, apparently had given up the ghost, perhaps to be reborn, in distant times, in distant foams, as Aphrodites. When finally V'lu spoke, the abruptness caused Lily to accidentally jettison the last remaining bubbles of champagne. 
"Whut Miz Priscilla call about?" 
"Pardon? Oh. Well, Miss Priscilla is seeking help, monetary or otherwise, in obtaining some—are you prepared for this?—some premium jasmine oil." 
"Jamais!" snapped V'lu. She caught herself. "Never," she repeated in English, catching herself once more and amending her response to: "Nebber." 
"Chorie, I am surprised at you. Don't look so upset." With a yellowed linen napkin, Madame dabbed at the champagne spots on the love-seat velvet. "The Parfumerie Devalier has extracted eight ounces of the most magnificent jasmine essence the world has ever known. When we establish the proper base note, we shall own a boof that will have Paris crawling here, to me, on its knees. It could ruin us if our extract fell into the wrong hands, but still, Pris has some rights. It took a lot of heart for her to turn to me after I rejected her three years ago, pushed her away in favor of you, when she asked to come back into the shop—" 
"But—" 
"I am aware of what you are going to say: she refused to help me when I really needed her. Well, I refused to help her when she needed it, too." 
"You hep her she whole life." "I could have helped more." "How?" 
"I could have told her the truth about Wally. Years before I did. I could have squelched her silly fantasies." Madame paused. "But then, perfume business is fantasy business, is it not?" She draped her napkin over the shellfish platter like a shroud. "Don't fret, cher. I didn't even mention our jasmine to Priscilla, and since we have no assurance that the Jamaican will supply any more, we may not be able to afford to share with her. Yet, what harm if we did? I can't imagine how she might use it. To be frank, it would please me if her recent interest in perfumes proved sincere. But she is far from expert in the field." 
V'lu sat upright, her countenance uncharacteristically grim. "Her hab dee bottle," she said firmly. "Her hab dat dadblasted bottle!" 
The older woman seemed about to protest but changed her mind. The two of them just sat there, as if they were mourners sitting the night with the shrouded oysters. It was early in the week, so no bellows of alcoholic gaiety drifted in from Bourbon Street, nor any screech from a tourist having her purse snatched over on St. Ann. They might as well have been on the plantation; indeed, they could make out crickets rubbing their patent leather hooves together in some nearby 
courtyard. A tomcat wailed. A foghorn Mark Twained on the river. Then, directly above their heads, there was a single soft thud or plop, followed by the softer sound of something rolling across the floor. 
"Hmmm," said Madame D. "Maybe our Bingo Pajama has returned." "Yes, ma'am. Or else it be somebody else all dee time be throwin' dem beets." That, at any rate, was what V'lu had intended to say. At precisely that moment, 
however, the hurricane drops hit her with full force, and, instead, she exclaimed, "Ui zeh! Ch, ch, ch, ch, ch, ch, ch." 
PARIS 
LATE ONE FOGGY AFTERNOON in November, just as he was snapping shut his attache case and calling it a day, Claude LeFever was summoned to the offices of his father, Luc, president of LeFever Odeurs. He arrived to find the old man wearing a whale mask. 
"Papa! What in the world . . . ? Take that off!" Although more accustomed to giving the orders, Luc did as he was bid. When the mask had been removed, it was easy to see why Claude reacted as strongly as he did. There are people in this world who can wear whale masks and people who cannot, and the wise know to which group they belong. A tall man, shoulders only slightly rounded by seventy years of nagging gravity; a powerfully built man, whose torso the blind might mistake for a home freezer; a handsome man, nose structurally sound enough to support what might have been the heaviest pair of horn-rimmed spectacles in Europe; a dignified man, despite a residual patch of snow-and-rust hair that resembled a wad of stuffing from a wino's mattress, Luc LeFever was so staid of bearing that on those rare occasions when he forged a smile, his body treated it as an infection, tripling its output of interferon in a frantic attempt to repulse the alien life form that had invaded it. This is not a portrait of your average whale-mask man. 
(Of course, Marcel LeFever was also a distinguished-looking gentleman, sober in his selection of tailor, barber, and facial expression, but in Marcel's eyes were telltale squadrons of milkweed seeds, eager to fly to faraway places upon the first cooperative breeze; whereas Luc's gaze was sedentary, a clump of briers that scratched with severity anything careless enough to brush against it.) 
"I wished to experience, for just five minutes, what it must be like being him," said Luc. He smoothed his hair. He lit, with a gold-plated lighter, a Romeo y Julieta Presidente, handmade in the Dominican Republic with Cameroon wrapper: a foe of socialism, Luc had long maintained a personal boycott of Havana cigars. 
"I wished to experience what it must be like to be ... unstable." He blew a smoke ring. It was square. 
Claude was more than a little surprised. "What brought this on?" "Death." "Pardon?" "I was examined by physicians this morning." 
"Oh, no." 
"Relax. My blood pressure has escalated, but if I submit to their damned medication, it will come back down. Other than that, 1 have a faint heart murmur, and a slight swelling of the big toe that could herald an attack of gout. Nothing to be alarmed about, but it underscores the fact that I'm getting to be an old, old man. I mentioned this in passing to one of the doctors, and he said, 'Nobody lives forever, Monsieur LeFever.' " 
"An astute observation. For once, the medical profession has issued a statement with which I can agree." 
"Can you now? I suppose you haven't heard of the Last Laugh Foundation?" 
"Yes, Papa, I have heard of the Last Laugh Foundation. What a farce. You know who operates that place? Wiggs Dannyboy, the drug addict and jailbird. Insane Irish—" 
"Yes, it's true that the notorious Dr. Dannyboy founded it, but do you know who's cast his lot with him? Wolfgang Morgenstern. I attended the Sorbonne with Morgenstern, he was in my elementary chemistry classes, we knew one another. Splendid fellow. He went on to win two Nobel prizes. Two, mind you." 
"Yes, but—" "Morgenstern wouldn't be involved if there wasn't something to it." "Yes, but—" "I can tell you, Morgenstern is not the sort to join forces with a charlatan." 
"Papa, are you considering having yourself admitted to the immortality clinic?" Disapproval was as thick in Claude's voice as fog was thick in the Parisian streets. 
With his fingertips, Luc slowly twirled the cigar. He examined its ash. The higher the quality of the cigar, the longer the ash it will produce. Eventually, however, every ash must drop. And the drop usually is as sudden as it is final. Did Luc detect a metaphor in the cigar ash? Might he muse philosophically about the nature of the Eternal Ashtray? Might we? 
"No," he said, after a puff or two. "I must confess to having experienced a twinge of temptation, knowing Morgenstern as I do. But in the end"—he sighed —"immortality is not for me. Did I make a pun, there? No? Good. In any case, dying is a tradition, and I am simply not the type of fellow who defies tradition." 
"Unless there is profit in it." "Eh?" 
"You've always been willing to break with tradition if there was a profit in it. That's the secret of your success in business." 
"Um. That may be. But I see no profit in struggling to live beyond one's natural limits. There's something greedy about that, and I've taught you to distinguish between the profit motive and greed. Sooner or later, the greedy lose their profits. Profiteering is honorable and healthy, greed is degrading, perverse." 
"Life's not the same as money." 
"Thank God! Life ebbs away, but money, properly managed, grows and continues to grow, lifetime after lifetime. Life is transitory, money is eternal. Or it could be, if the damned Americans would lower their interest rates." Luc 
picked up the whale mask and blew a stream of blue smoke through its eyeholes. "This small talk about death, money, and, last but not least, perversity, cannot help but bring us back to him." 
"Christ?" "No, you idiot, not Christ. Your cousin. Marcel." 
Claude frowned. "Papa, if you're going to jump on Bunny's back again, forget it. You know how I feel about him." 
"Indeed, I do, and there's something perverse about that, too. You spend more time with that bedbug than you do with your wife." 
"Yes, well, Bunny is more entertaining than my wife. And he makes us more money." 
"Your wife doesn't ridicule you in public. And if wearing a cardboard fish head is your idea of entertainment ..." 
"A whale is not a fish." "So what?" 
"I'm willing to accept his ridicule, and his peculiarities. And, ultimately, Papa, so are you. Without Bunny, where would this firm be?" 
"That's a contingency for which I have been preparing." 
"What do you mean?" 
Luc propped his cigar against the rim of an alabaster ashtray. The cigar looked like some kind of vegetable, a root crop, related, perhaps, to the mangel-wurzel. The vegetable was on fire. Arson was suspected. 
"I mean that Marcel is unstable." Luc retrieved the cigar and with it, tapped the whale mask. Ash sifted onto the jaws. The cigar burned on. Fireman, fireman, save my vegetable! "I mean that any day Marcel might up and decide to swim to Tahiti. Look at the way he's abandoned New Wave, attacking it as if it were some sort of dangerous political movement, rather than a highly promising perfume in 
which we've invested millions, and which he, himself, developed. Now he's talking about making scent from seaweed. He thinks women will pay a thousand francs an ounce to smell like low tide. I thought most women bought perfume to avoid smelling like the mouth of the Amazon." 
"But—" 
"Listen, I still trust Marcel. He's also beginning to show new interest in natural jasmines, which might be a sound idea. He's the best nose in the business, and he's been correct too many times for me to sour on him now. Nevertheless, he is unpredictable, and therefore a risk. So, while you've been taking out insurance policies on him and filling his kitchen with assistants, not one of whom, unfortunately, could come close to filling his shoes, I've been taking other precautions." Luc removed a folder from a desk drawer. "After the scare the doctors put into me today, I decided I should go ahead and turn this over to you." 
"What is it?" "A list of agents." "Agents?" 
"Selected employees of our main competitors. France. New York. Germany. Plus a few people situated with small perfumeries, certain promising shops off the beaten track where something might develop that the big boys have overlooked." 
"Spies?" 
"If that's what you choose to call them. Let's just say that if Marcel should go astray, we will still have access to blue-chip recipes. And if one of the little perfumeries should strike gold. . . . You have objections?" 
A bit sheepishly Claude shook his head. "I suppose not. So long as it's just a failsafe, a backup. You see, I'm confident that the cuckoo is going to stay put in Bunny's clock. He won't do anything rash." Luc shot him a disbelieving look. "Well, nothing so rash as to endanger the firm and justify extralegal activities. But, you know, the way he wanders around on foggy evenings like this without a topcoat, it wouldn't hurt to have something up our sleeves in the event that he catches a fatal chill in his liver. I mean, those things happen." 
Luc expelled such a geyser of smoke that had it come from a derailed tank car, the authorities would have immediately evacuated the neighborhood. Under certain conditions, Luc's exhalation could have forced hundreds of people to spend the night in church basements and high-school gymnasiums. "It's not his liver I'm concerned about. Nor mine. I've always been a prime physical specimen, I expected to live a century, but the doctors have pulled the rug out from under that idea. All right, I can accept it, I'm no sissy hippie about death. What worries me is: what if Marcel should outlive you? Can you imagine Marcel in charge?" 
"Papa!" 
"Jesus. This building. He'd probably rent out the top twenty-three stories and operate a little perfumerie in the basement, like the monks had seven hundred years ago, or that little Kudra shop that was next-door when our ancestors bought the business in 1666." 
"Papa! How ridiculous. In the first place, I'm in better health than Bunny. In the second place, the articles of incorporation would prohibit him from doing anything like that, even if he wanted to. Third, this is the best way for a person to raise his blood pressure, worrying about things like longevity, which you have no control over." 
Another column of smoke erupted from the tank car of compressed mangel- wurzel, delaying any hopes the neighbors might have had of returning to their homes. "But what if someone does have control?" Luc asked. 
"What on earth are you talking about?" 
"This. I'm talking about this. A few days ago, Marcel received an invitation to visit the Last Laugh Foundation." 
"In America?" "You idiot. Of course, in America." "Why Marcel? Surely he isn't going?" "His secretary says he accepted. Today." 
Claude furrowed his brow. He tugged at the ax blade of his beard. "But what's this all about?" 
"I wish to hell I knew. That's what I want you to find out. It may be a spinoff from that ridiculous speech he gave at the perfumers' convention, or it may be something else." 
After cautioning his father to take his medication, Claude left him. On the way to the elevator, he peeked into Marcel's office. Marcel wasn't there. Everything seemed normal, except, of course, for the beet on the silver tray. 
Claude rode to the ground floor. Through the plate glass windows, the foggy streets looked like Frankenstein's idea of Club Med. Claude had a hunch that before he went outside he ought to lock Luc's "agent" file in his attache case. As he was about to put it in, he flipped rapidly through it. The name V'lu Jackson caught his eye. 
PART III 
PROMISE HER ANYTHING BUT GIVE HER K-23 
THE HIGHEST FUNCTION OF LOVE is that it makes the loved one a unique and irreplaceable being. 
The difference between love and logic is that in the eyes of a lover, a toad can be a prince, whereas in the analysis of a logistician, the lover would have to prove that the toad was a prince, an enterprise destined to dull the shine of many a passion. 
Logic limits love, which may be why Descartes never married. Descartes, 
 
architect of the Age of Reason, fled Paris, the City of Romance, in 1628 to "escape its distractions." He settled in Holland, where, surrounded by disciples and supported by patrons, he studied and wrote about mathematics and logic. Late in the year of 1649, he was invited to visit Stockholm to instruct Queen Christina in philosophy. Descartes accepted at once. Perhaps the pay was good. There would have been a reason. 
Queen Christina took her lessons lying down. Frequently she was nude. That is hardly the worst of it. The court of Sweden, like everyplace else in seventeenth- century Europe, was infested with fleas. Christina had had her craftsmen fashion for her a tiny cannon of silver and gold. As she lay about on her cushions, she fired the little cannon at the fleas on her body. That was why she was nude. It is said she was a fair to good shot. 
The daily sight of Her Majesty thus amusing herself, while he, Descartes, in dark Dutch britches, undertook to explain the underlying perfection of an indubitable sphere of Being, was more than his rational bias could bear. He grew rapidly nervous and pale. On February 11, 1650, only a few months after his arrival in Stockholm, Descartes, fifty-four, fell dead. Christina lived thirty-nine years longer and knocked off a good many more fleas. 
In 1666—little harm love could do him then—Descartes's body was taken to Paris for reburial. At the funeral, a disagreeable odor filled the churchyard. "It was as if a goatherd had driven his flock through our midst," said one of Descartes's followers. No logical explanation was offered. 
The highest function of love is that it makes the loved one a unique and irreplaceable being. Still, lovers quarrel. Frequently, they quarrel simply to recharge the air between them, to sharpen the aliveness of their relationship. To precipitate such a quarrel, the sweaty kimono of sexual jealousy is usually dragged out of the hamper, although almost any excuse will do. Only rarely is the spat rooted in the beet-deep soil of serious issue, but when it is, a special sadness attends it, for the mind is slower to heal than the heart, and such quarrels can doom a union, even one that has prospered for a very long time. 
The quarrel of Kudra and Alobar lasted for into the night. Jarred by their words, things fell apart in the flat: flowerpots tottered on the windowsills, feathers flew 
 
out of pillows, and the teapot sang, though there was no fire beneath it and it was not a cozy song. As if it had long fingernails, their argument reached out into the street and scratched the cobblestones, the chestnut blossoms, the blackboard of the sky. 
"A pox on squabbling lovers," muttered Pan. Pan needed to get to sleep. He'd been in bed for hours, but instead of dreams, what came to him were harsh voices through the wall. Pan tossed and turned and cursed a bit, although the irony of the situation (gods have ears for irony) was not lost on him: Alobar and Kudra were fighting over immortality, whereas 
Pan was craving sleep because he planned to get up early to attend a funeral. 
Pan tossed and turned, turned and tossed. An eye at the keyhole would have been amazed. It would have spied a bed in turmoil, iron bedstead rattling, wool blankets thrashing, but not a soul in the covers. . 
The year was 1666 and poor Pan was completely invisible. 
At seven o'clock in the morning, the door of the incense shop that had been established at 21, rue Quelle Blague opened and closed, although nobody was seen to enter or leave. A transparent mist of musk moved slowly eastward along the left bank of the Seine. At the rue St. Jacques, the acrid cloud turned to the south, insulting every snout, human or equine, by which it floated. After about eight blocks, it began traveling eastward again, creeping up the slope of a steep hill, at the top of which sat the crumbly old Gothic abbey church of Ste. Genevieve-du-Mont. 
"This temple (gasp) art as tired and (wheeze) rundown as I," panted Pan, and, indeed, though the professional virgin, Genevieve, was regarded with much paradoxical affection in the City of Romance, the church would be razed in less than a century to make way for a fine new building in the neoclas-sic style. In 1817 the well-traveled bones of Descartes would be transferred from its yard to St. Germain-des-Pres, but on this spring morning they were to be planted in the mossy cemetery where Genevieve's own saintly remains had a thousand years been lying. 
In his more vital days, Descartes had included in his philosophical treatises 
 
enough scientific fact to displease the bishops, so except for the cleric whose Latin platitudes were to be rained on his deaf skull, the Church was without representation at his interment. However, among those who were obeisant to the new religion of science, which was in its husky infancy at this time, Descartes was increasingly revered, and they attended the rite in fair number. Pan rested upon a burial vault at a far end of the yard and watched their carriages arrive. 
Some of the professors and physicians were rather shabby; they were men too clothed in ideas to pay much heed to grooming; Many others, however, including the provost of the University of Paris, the president of the guilds, the designer of the Observatoire, which was about to be built, and the chairman of the mathematical society were decked out in black silks and powdered wigs. The sight of those wigs gave Pan an idea. Earlier in the century, wigs had been worn exclusively by the nobility, but now they had become popular with the bourgeoisie. If Alobar were to sport a wig, thought Pan, it might solve his current problem and put a stop to his bickering with Kudra. "No small blessing, that," he said. He rubbed his bleary eyes and yawned. 
About then a small brass band struck up a dirgeful tune, and Pan, who fancied himself a musician, listened critically. "In all of Arkadia, there be not a single sheep who wouldst dance to such noise," he complained. But once the speech- making commenced, he was sorry the music had ended. 
Aristotle had dealt Pan an enervating blow. Then, Jesus Christ had practically belted his horns off. Now, word was out that Descartes had applied the coup de grace. What little remained of Pan's ancient power was destined to evaporate in the Age of Reason, that's what the experts said. Pan, weary and indistinct, could not dispute them. When he learned of Descartes's funeral, some morbid (or goatish) curiosity drew him, sore of hoof, to Ste. Genevieve-du-Mont. 
Like jugged bees, the funereal orations droned on. One intellectual honored Descartes's Discourse on Method, another convinced every moss-backed headstone in the churchyard of the departed's contribution to the theory of equations, while a third, more bombastic than the rest, rattled in its vault the untested pelvis of good Saint Genevieve with his praise of the new rationale. Just as the university provost was uncorking his monotone, the spring breeze suddenly shifted direction, and the funeral party found itself downwind from Pan. 
The crowd grew inattentive. Out of the corner of his eye, the provost checked the environs for animal life. Those who owned handkerchiefs soon had them to their nostrils (a passerby might have assumed that they were weeping). Among those who had no handkerchiefs was the priest. "This is what the Almighty thinks of science," he mumbled, then immediately crossed himself, begging forgiveness for having attributed to God a scent that obviously was Satan's. 
Of. course, the group was lucky. Pan's reek was actually mild compared to what it had been in the good old days. Nevertheless, a certain waggish mathematician provoked some scorn and much stifled laughter when, in a stage whisper, he paraphrased Descartes's most famous dictum. 
"I stink, therefore I am," he said, nodding toward the Swedish walnut coffin. 
"Ever thus." Pan sighed. Where was the profit in invisibility if one's odor gave one away? He creaked to his feet and, on legs of wobbly wool, threaded through the crowd toward the stone gate. Halfway there, he remembered his idea about a wig and, in passing, snatched the hairpiece off a prominent man of learning. Assuming that the wind had taken it, other bewigged guests grabbed at their own adornments, anchoring them to their noggins. There the French intelligentsia stood, one hand to its hair, the other to its noses, as the god and the wig bobbed out of Saint Genevieve's decaying churchyard and down the hill to the Seine. It was the first fun Pan had had all week. 
Upon reaching the riverbank, Pan stopped for a breather. He uprooted a clump of turf and hid the wig beneath it so that no passing bargeman might mistake it for a relic of an aristocratic romp in the grass. An invisible learned early that his possessions and trappings did not borrow his ability, which meant that he must go always empty-handed. Pan could not even carry his pipes. 
That was a shame, because a breezy April morning such as that one was meant for a tune. On similar mornings in the old days, the golden days, Pan's mischievous piping on the outskirts of a village would be the signal for the village men to lock up their wives and daughters. Those who failed to secure their women would lose them that day to the pastures, from where they would 
  
return after dusk, tangle-haired, grass-stained, and stinking of the rut. Pan grinned at the memory. "Methinks I could pipe Maria Theresa right out of the palace," he mused, referring to Louis XIV's young bride. 
It was encouraging that he would mention a contemporary female, for Pan had begun to live in his memories, an unhealthy symptom in anyone, suggesting as it does that life has peaked. Every daydream that involves the past sports in its hatband a ticket to the grave. Yet, what did the neglected god have to look forward to? To ambrosia, to Maria Theresa, to a monthly pension, a flock of his own? No, only the ministrations of Alobar and Kudra kept him going, and as their recent quarreling intimated, the couple had other things to worry about. 
As he warmed his horns on the sunny riverbank, watching the wind-torn chestnut blossoms drift by like melted nymph flesh on the tide, Pan dismissed Descartes and his prideful ambition to force nature under human control, and thought instead of Alobar and Kudra, how they had come to Arkadia, drunk on eternal knowledge, seeking him out and laughing. . . . 
Presumably, their "eternal knowledge" was derived from the Bandaloop, albeit indirectly. No documents, no artifacts, no graffiti were left behind by the Bandaloop, but as Dr. Wiggs Dannyboy of the Last Laugh Foundation has written, "Physical immortality is primarily a matter of vibration," and the caves certainly were resonant with the vibrations of their former occupants. 
Alobar and Kudra lived in those caves, amidst those vibrations, for seven years, during which time they learned many of the secrets of life everlasting. Alobar believed they should have stayed longer and learned more, and this belief kept surfacing like a lungfish in the hot surf of their seventeenth-century quarrels. Way back then, however, six hundred years further back, when the cream was still thick and yellow on the magic milk and the marble egg of logic laid by the Greek philosophers had yet to hatch, Alobar was simply too happy to protest at length. 
Kudra was as thrilled as he with their Bandaloop education, yet she had been yearning since childhood, since that formative merchandising trip, to go out into the wider world, and now, tingling as she was with vitality and confidence, she was impatient to plunge into far cities and countrysides. "Take me to the lands 
 
where the sun sets," she implored. "We can do our immortality work wherever we are." That was basically true, for, and here we quote Wiggs Dannyboy again, "Physical immortality is not an end result, a condition to be arrived at in the future, but an ongoing discipline, an attitude, a way of life to be practiced in the present, day by day." Nevertheless, Alobar was convinced that there were serious holes in their knowledge that could best be filled in the caves of the Bandaloop. He made a sincere effort to persuade Kudra to linger; then, having failed at that, jumped with her, lighthearted and eager, into the meandering mainstream of medieval life. 
Alobar signed on as a guard with a spice caravan, and they traveled by camel to Constantinople, humpbacking out of the sandy wings of the east onto that golden stage where Emperor Basil II was directing, under the auspices of Byzantine Christianity, a long-running drama of expansion and wealth. Suspecting that immortality might be fostered more by comfort than by asceticism, but having lived hand to mouth during all of their time together, the couple elected to settle temporarily in Constantinople and sample its luxury. 
Neither of them had ever resided in a large city before, and Constantinople, a major trading center, a cosmopolitan link between East and West, a mosaic-tiled hive of commercial and religious honey, woke them daily with an excited nudge from its gilt elbow. Aided by Kudra, whose understanding of raw materials was studiously passed on to him, Alobar rose rapidly from stevedore to manager of Basil's spice warehouses, a position whose salary afforded them a smart house overlooking the Bosporus, a silver tea service, and carpets thicker and more colorful than the ones that had disappeared from the caves with the Bandaloop. Upon those rugs (dyed in some cases with beet juice), they sipped mint tea, munched spinach pies and melons, made love in ways that emphasized the utra in Kama Sutra, and perfected the breathing techniques that apparently are indispensable to extreme longevity. 
Bathing techniques also are important, and, fortunately, in Constantinople they were easy to practice. As Alobar was well aware, most of Europe's two-legged mammals thought of water as an element only slightly more suitable for external application than fire. The unpopularity of the bath was both widespread and persistent (in Louis XIV's incomparably elegant Versailles, there was not a single vessel designed for bathing, a fact that one day would lead Kudra to regard the Sun King's court a potential market for her incense; late in the twentieth century, there were still great numbers of Europeans who refused to 
wash their bodies lest they remove some quality—corporeal or incorporeal— deemed essential to their image of themselves). As a result of its constant intercourse with the Far East, Constantinople had acquired an appreciation of the protracted hot bath, for the purpose of which a network of stone aqueducts channeled water into the city from reservoirs in the nearby hills. So that they might bathe together, a practice forbidden in the sexually segregated public baths, Alobar and Kudra tapped into the aqueduct system and built a tile-roofed, waist-deep tub at the rear of their house, between the rosebushes and the pistachio tree. Kudra spoke fluent amphibian, but Alobar, conditioned by the European aversion, frequently had to be coaxed into the tub by a reminder that ritualistic bathing enhances longevity, or by a suggestion that a soak might add some unusual slippery dimension to the coital functioning of his or his companion's organs. 
"Nowhere under yon setting sun will you meet water meant for bathing in," Alobar would caution Kudra whenever she grew antsy, and if that did not lull her restlessness, he would add, "No perfumes will you meet, either." 
He was correct, there was no perfume west of the Bosporus. In the modern sense, there was no perfume anywhere, for the process by which a flower's fumes are extracted and preserved using alcohol distillation was not to be discovered for another hundred years, when Avicenna, the Arabian alchemist, hit upon it while trying to isolate for Islam the soul of its holy rose. In eleventh- century Constantinople, however, aromatics were as popular as they were in Kudra's India, and, as in India, they came mostly in the form of thick resins and gooey gums. Each morning, a servant would bring Basil II a small cedar box filled with resinous frankincense and gummy myrrh, whereupon the emperor would smash the box over his own head, allowing its contents to trickle down his neck and beard. As time passed, Basil began to act rather punchy from all the box breaking, and frequently his eyes were sealed half shut from the gum. He smelled great, though, and when he died in 1025, his successor, wishing to exude an even larger glory, took to breaking two boxes over his head every day. Perhaps it was because of their vigorous application of scent that neither of the emperors was sufficiently alert to notice that their spice manager stayed constant in appearance even as they aged—although others in Constantinople noticed well enough: in the court and in the church, gossip rustled its leathery wings. 
"The emperor, the bishop, the camels at the marketplace, the olive trees on the hillsides, the ships in the harbor, every and each grow older. This Alobar and 
Kudra do not." 
"They are always in good humor and health, yet they never attend devotion." 
"They bathe together." 
"They smile too much." 
"She anoints herself with sweet unguents as though a man." 
"Nobody knows whence they came." 
"They are often at the act of love, as their noisy demonstrations attest, but produce not a child." 
"It is whispered that they eat their children as soon as they are born." "Aye. Eating babies is what keeps them young." "Dark, she is." "Haughty is he." 
"Nonbelievers." "Supernatural." "Agents of the Evil One." "Our children are in peril." 
Rumor by rumor, suspicion of them intensified, until—"Did you hear? A small boy disappeared yesterday at play on the Bosporus—one night they found themselves fleeing Constantinople just ahead of a mob. Alobar bribed a Greek captain to hide them among the stacks of ivory tusks lashed to his deck, and it was from that vantage that they witnessed their home of nearly thirty years burning to the ground. 
"Hold back your sobs," Alobar consoled, squeezing one of Kudra's dolphin thighs. "We have learned from this experience two important things. First of all, our Bandaloop experiment is successful; we have slowed, if not turned away, the 
wrinkle-carving, silver-sowing herald of death. About that we can rejoice. Second, we now are aware that a display of undue longevity creates problems in a community conditioned to age and die. In the future, we must take that cautiously into account." 
He pointed to their burning house, which by then was but a glowing ember on the horizon. "We have lost a roof over our heads, a fine teapot, an overrated bath, and some carpets stained by our love. Let them go. We have aliveness, instead. And on this entire world, which I know for fact to be as round as a beet, there is no other pair like you and me." 
Through her tears Kudra grinned. "I'm certain that we shall find other rugs to stain," said she. "But even you will miss our bath, wait and see. As for the teapot ..." With a flourish, she produced it from beneath her cloak. 
Gathering her to him, teapot and all, Alobar pretended to search under her wraps. "For what I know, you may have hid our bath in there, as well. Ah, I thought so! I feel something hot and wet." 
"You may well wish it were a bath, before too long. Oh, what is my poor large nose going to think of a people who neither bathe nor wear perfumes?" 
"Well," said Alobar, "my scheme is to condition you straightaway by introducing you to Pan. Of all who stink in the western lands, none stinks in such grand capacity as he. Pan is a god and is my friend." 
"Only you, Alobar. Only you among men could claim a god for a friend. And naturally it would be a god unwashed and smelly." 
She embraced him, swabbing his beard with kisses at the same moment that the ship plunged its black, wooden tongue into the murmuring mouth of the outer waters, knocking salt teeth loose in every direction; and as the lash lines shuddered from the recoil of that ancient kiss, as the mast pole tilted its neck like a voyeur for a better view, and the mainsail, with a raucous, swift gesture, shook a skyful of stars out of its folds and creases, Kudra and Alobar were carried off to Greece— uncertain, intrepid, possibly immortal, decidedly in love. . . . 
Pan remembered the breezy way they had crossed his pasture, fairly skipping as 
 
they walked, although that pasture, like all pastures in Arkadia, was weighted down with toe-stubbing rocks; and she had said, "It is so quiet out here I can hear my ears," and he had shot back, "If your nose were your ears, the noise would be deafening." Vaudeville was not dead. It wasn't born yet. 
Spying on them from a bushy crag, Pan had to admit that they were as agreeable a pair of homers as he'd ever laid eyes upon ("homers" was what the surviving Greek gods secretly called mortals, a disparaging term taken from the name of the so-called bard who had spread so many lies about them). Pan admired the bounce in their step, the fun in their voice, the way they paused every fifty yards or so to fondle one another; Pan was curious about the silver pot that the female homer cradled against her round mooey breasts as if it were a babe, and Pan was amused when the male homer, when invited to inspect one of the woman's silk slippers (meant for padding about upon carpets and now ripped and frazzled by stones), had rolled it up and smoked it. 
Oh, there was an air about them, all right, but it wasn't until they were directly beneath his perch that Pan, whose gaze had become fixed upon the prosperous sweep of the woman's hips—if ever a twat were a cornucopia, spilling forth meat puddings, hot wines, and sweets of every description: unending (shellfish) inexhaustible (peaches) infinite (mush- 
rooms) feta feta feta forever, surely it was hers—it wasn't until her companion suddenly pinched his nostrils together and cried, "He's close by! I have got a whiffi", that Pan made the identification. Why, it was ex-King Whatsizname, that brash upstart from the north, the mad fellow who had gone off—was it fifty, sixty homer years ago?—to spike a petition on death's door. From the looks of him, death had considered his complaint. Well, well . . . 
Alobar was then one hundred and two, yet looked half his age, and the vigorous half at that. White hairs continued to populate his noble head, as if they were the familiars, the pale shadows of the chestnut filaments, which continued to dwell there, as well; but the phantoms, impotent, infertile in their ghost sheets, had failed to multiply and seemed content to just hang on, haunting the original inhabitants, who though they once might have quaked, had ceased to be afraid. Alobar had put on a few pounds and no longer carried himself like a warrior— Samye meditations had massaged the tension from his spine, Bandaloop transmissions had turned his spear-arm into a gaily waving thing—but pity the foolish young bully who noticed not the muscles turning and polishing 
themselves inside the lapidary of his tunic. His beard was trimmed after the Byzantine fashion, his various flashes of scar tissue had taken on a plum's brilliance, his sleet blue eyes looked out upon the world with a cub's curiosity and a papa bear's cunning. He blew playful puffs of slipper smoke through his nose. 
Speaking of noses, his consort sported a grandiose banana that was almost musical in the way it curved. Upon a more angular woman it might have been ridiculous, but this dark creature was such a walking barrage of burpy bulges and bending lines that her nose blended perfectly into her contours. From the thick parabolas of her eyelids to the pronounced balls of her now bare feet, she was nonstop curve, three nymphs' worth of curve, -a foreign contradiction to Greek geometry. The drool that rained from Pan's lips as he spied on her would have frozen in mid-drip had a reliable source informed him that she was as old as the grandmothers who milked the goats in nearby valleys, toothless skeletons (this one had a mouthful of pearly brights) whose only curves were in backs bent double over walking sticks. Kudra was sixty-six, Pan, and as you were to learn, as much a match for you as any homer girl you had ever piped into a pasture. Of course, you, yourself, Mr. Horny, were long past your prime. . . . 
Yes, Mr. Goat Foot, despite the angry split between Rome and Constantinople, the tide of Christianity had not receded, but rather continued its slow, soupy flow into every nook and cranny of the land, until there was scarcely a pagan left whose heart and brain had not been lapped by it, lapped so long in many cases that old beliefs had been eroded, if not washed away, and you, Mr. Charmer, Mr. Irrational, Mr. Instinct, Mr. Gypsy Hoof, Mr. Clown; you, Mr. Body Odor, Mr. Animal Mystery, Mr. Nightmare, Mr. Lie in Wait, Mr. Panic, Mr. Bark at the Moon; yes, you, Mr. Rape, Mr. Masturbate, Mr. Ewebangi, Mr. Internal Wilderness, Mr. Startle Reaction, Mr. Wayward Force, Mr. Insolence, Mr. Nature Knows Best, you had been steadily losing your hold on the peasants and were now even weaker in flesh and spirit than when Alobar had seen you last. You were fading, and it was not a pretty sight, for you were a god, after all, with a god's strength; born, laughing and prancing, in the high golden circle where great and terrifying decisions are made. It hurt you to experience your popularity waning, it might have driven you to the wineskin were not the wineskin already, Mr. Sensual License, your lifelong friend; and it added to your misery to observe the effects of estrangement upon your former followers. In losing you, they were 
 
losing their body wisdom, their moon wisdom, their mountain wisdom, they were trading the live wood of the maypole for the dead carpentry of the cross. They weren't as much fun, anymore, the poor homers^ they were straining so desperately for admission to paradise that they had forgotten that paradise had always been their address. That's why you were attracted to this unlikely couple that came skipping into your meadow, the woman in clear communion with the booming bells of her meat, the man unafraid of appearing frivolous in the eyes of 
Christ as he caressed a poppy while puffing on a shoe. You would have admired them even had they not been sniffing you out, which, of course, they were. 
Pan suspected, and rightly so, that the couple's gaiety, their cockiness and elan, was somehow the result of Alobar's successful petition against death, and, more than anyone else, the beleaguered god probably could have imagined the anguished expression minted into the other side of the immortalist coin. 
To witness Kudra then, giggling and barefoot among the poppies, it would have been hard for anyone to picture her on her knees in a Constantinople pantry, weeping and wailing, shaking like the shuttle in an overachiever's loom, begging Shakti, Shiva, Kali, and Krishna to forgive her for rebelling against divine authority. (And it is divine authority, is it not, that insists that we must die? That grants us consciousness for a few decades, then, no matter how gloriously we have used it, snatches it away? Surely, the human race committed some heinous atavistic crime for the gods to inflict it with mortality, as they have; and isn't it a worsening of our crime, a compounding of our guilt, to try to escape our just punishment?) Even after absorbing the Bandaloop legacy (or part of it, at least), Kudra could never quite overcome the feeling that, in defying death, she was doing something wrong and would be made to pay for it in some prolonged and unspeakably excruciating way. When in Alobar's company, when meditating or bathing, she could exult in a body that remained firm and juicy while thousands about her withered away, but alone in the frottage of twilight, awaiting Alobar's return from the spice docks, fear would ooze out of the brown pit of her chin dimple, and, whimpering, she would turn from one deity to another, even bizarre Ganesh, with his elephant head, pleading for mercy for not having submitted to a widow's death in the rope yard. 
Now Alobar had grown up in a more intimate relationship with his gods. His snored in magic tree trunks and twinkled in the constellations, frequently 
emerging, mossy-haired or moon-burned, to fraternize with humanity, sharing human foibles and appetites. As a king in the forests of what would one day be called Bohemia, Alobar, himself, had been deemed half divine. Still, he, too, felt odd and uncomfortable at times, felt a gulf widening between himself and his fellows who went uncomplaining to the grave. "Am I clinging to my individual being only to have it grow inhuman and strange?" he would agonize. "Am I inviting a revenge worse than simple annihilation?" 
On a day such as that one, however, a day popping its seams with sunshine, lust, and adventure, it was difficult for him—or Kudra—to conceive of anything worse than annihilation. So, they advanced in the lavender mountain haze like chatty autograph-seekers closing in on a celebrity's hideaway, but in their secret hearts they wanted something other than your scrawl, Mr. Shaggy; they wanted you to reach into their secret hearts and remove the hard, knobby doggy bone of doubt that their apparent victory over time had buried there. 
"We have been living in Constantinople among the Christians," explained Alobar. 
"The Christians doth be everywhere," said Pan. "Not in my homeland," said Kudra. 
"They will be," said Pan. A wave of faintness and nausea broke over him. He ignored it to concentrate on Kudra s mounds. 
"Prior to that," said Alobar, "we lived in a cave far away in the East. Have you ever heard of the Bandaloop doctors?" 
"No," said Pan. "Don't be stupid." 
Alobar reddened. "You've been around a while. I thought someone might have mentioned Bandaloop to you." 
"I am Pan," said Pan. "People do not mention things to me." 
"Your point is well taken," said Kudra. Pan grinned at her lasciviously. Alobar glowered. 
 
"I will play for thee," said Pan, producing his reeds. 
"We wished to talk to you about immortality," protested Alobar. 
"Thou art too late," said-Pan. He blew a few weak notes on his pipes. 
"Too late for talk or too late for immortality?" asked Kudra. 
Pan's instrument made a sound, high and thin. 
'Too late for us or too late for you?" asked Alobar. He had noted the god's physical decline. 
"Thou art interested in the immortal, this be immortal," said Pan, and he commenced to pipe in earnest. 
"But—" objected Alobar. "Your point is well taken," said Kudra. Alobar glowered. 
Before she met him, before they flushed him from his thickets, Kudra had imagined Pan to be a giant, a winged monster with fire-blackened hooves and more arms than necessary for the discharge of polite duties; imagined him smoldering, hissing, uprooting trees and spitting hailstones, instructing humanity in a thunderous tone. She was frankly disappointed when he proved to be slighter in stature than her Alobar, and she could barely keep from sniggering at his -foul tangles of wool and his silly tail. Even his stench failed to measure up to Alobar's description of it, striking her as more locally naughty than universally nasty. It wasn't until he began to pipe that Kudra got some sense of Who (or What) He Really Was. 
At first, his playing, too, seemed slight; it was so simple, careless, and primitive that one had to sympathize with Timolus, who, judging the music contest between Pan and Apollo, had unhesitatingly awarded the prize to the Apollonian lyre, thereby establishing the tradition that critics must laud polish and restraint, attack what is quirky and disobedient, a tradition that endures to this day. Had Timolus not hooked Pan off the stage so quickly, had he possessed the—the what? the honesty? the humility? (Timolus, after all, couldn't play shit) the 
nerve? to actually listen to Pan, to respond with something more genuine than his preconceptions, he might have been affected, as Kudra began to be affected, once she stopped smirking at his obvious lack of formal training and quit comparing him unfavorably with the flutist, Lord Krishna. Pan's song, because it served no purpose, because, indeed, it transcended the human yoke of purposes, was, above all, liberating. It was music beyond the control of the player's will or the listener's will; the will, in fact, dissolved in it (which may explain why it was politically necessary for Apollo, with the compliance of Timolus, to drown it out). To Kudra it was the aural equivalent of the rope trick: a giddy ascent up a shaky coil, to arrive in a place of mystery, where the sense of all-encompassing oneness with the natural world and the sense of the absolute aloneness of the individual coexist and commingle. There was a sort of hippity-hoppity bunny rabbit quality to Pan's erratic melody, but also a roaming goatish quality, stubborn, rough, and lean. If at one instance it sounded tender and idyllic, at another, threatening and brutal, perhaps that was because Pan's song was the inner animal's songs, all of them, summed into one seemingly random epiphany. Kudra felt that at Pan's concert she was on less than solid ground, yet, as unsteady as that ground might be, she was driven to dance upon it. (Maybe there is no proper way to react to the inner animal's tunes but dance to them.) 
Kudra found herself swaying rhythmically and wiggling her grass-stained toes. She turned to Alobar to find him executing a little shuffle, snapping the fingers of his left hand while with the right he defined a tempo by shaking the charred remains of her half-smoked shoe. Kudra was amused by Alobar's tentative polka until her eyes fell upon the tumescent protrusion dancing with him. Disgusting, she thought. An erection is just inappropriate. Then she realized with a shock that she was so wet that children could have sailed toy boats in her underpants. 
The next thing she knew, she and Alobar were dancing up the hillside, following the Charmer's pipes, through thistle bushes and over jagged rocks; and while panic fear erupted with a roar from her deepest places and while she overheard Alobar plaintively asking, "Doesn't it matter to you that she is my wife?" she was incapable of turning back. 
The refined erotic engineering taught by the Kama Sutra had not prepared Kudra for that night of priapism, but the following morning, after she had sponged her chafed parts in the grotto pool and smeared them repeatedly with the aromatics that she lugged about in the teapot (even so, the goat smell was to cling to her for weeks), she found that she and Alobar could face one another without shame, 
and she nodded in total agreement when Alobar ventured, "I feel somehow that his lechery was secondary, although to what I cannot say." 
For breakfast, Pan served them olives, tomatoes, and cheese, which they ate in the nude without a trace of self-consciousness. Throughout the meal, the sleepy- eyed god kept testing the air, more like a hare than a goat, until at last Alobar inquired what he might be sniffing. 
"Flowers, methinks, but unlike any flowers that bloom in these parts. Most strange. Dost thou smell them, too?" 
"You are smelling my perfumes," said Kudra, and when Pan looked puzzled, she thrust her shoulder under his nose. His bewilderment increased. "Thou didst not smell like that last night," he said. 
Alobar made a move to produce the perfume jars, but Kudra caught his wrist and bade him wait. "We puny homers, as you call us, have some magic of our own," she said. "Tell me, do you find the aroma unpleasant?" 
"It be quite pleasing—from a blossom. A woman shouldst smell as thou didst last night." 
"Bah! You Western males are all alike, whether you call yourselves gods or men. You've had your noses in too many battles and too many hunts. Alobar used to hate perfumes, but when he came home from the warehouse every evening accidentally smelling of nutmeg and cinnamon and tumeric, he grew accustomed to the idea that flesh is more appealing when not left to marinate in its own rank juices. Here. Close your eyes for a minute. Just for a minute. Go ahead. Trust me." 
Reluctantly, Pan lowered his. big monkey lids, whereupon Kudra doused him with enough patchouli to stampede a herd of elephants. His eyes flew open like the hatch covers on an exploding ship, and he commenced to sniff at his extremities, as if he were wildly in love with himself. A kind of disorienta-tion seemed to seize him, causing him to walk in circles, repeatedly crossing his own path. The nymphs, who had entertained Alobar during the night while Kudra was being entertained by Pan, laughed nervously from their mossy lounge across the pool. One of the nymphs sidled up to the god and pulled his tail with a petal- 
 
picking gesture, only to be flung violently to the ground. At last, Pan sat down between Kudra and Alobar, still inhaling drafts of himself with expressions of disbelief, and began to speak in the most subdued tones Alobar had yet heard him employ. 
" Tis true, thou homers do have magic of thine own, the gods have always known that, known it even better than thee. We gods know how to use our powers, but most men and women do not know how, that be the difference between us and thee. Sniff sniff." 
"Forgive me," said Alobar, "but the important difference between men and gods is that gods are immortal and men are not. Is this a result of we men not knowing how to correctly use our powers?" 
Pan ran his rather squashed nose along his patchouli-contaminated arm. "Once, a long time ago, when the earth had a flat dark face and a belly of fire, back before the hills had grown so tall that they pushed the moon away, mankind was given a choice between life and death and through trickery or misinformation or something else, made the wrong choice. That is all there is to it." 
"But what if," asked Kudra, shooting Alobar a meaningful glance, "but what if we decided now to choose life?" 
"Then choose it," said Pan. 
Again, Kudra and Alobar exchanged glances. "But would not that anger the gods?" Kudra asked. 
"Ha ha ha!" The laughter burst out of Pan like the barking of some obscene dog. "Anger the gods? The gods, those that art still around, wouldst congratulate thee for finally catching on." 
"You mean . . . ?" "I mean that the gods do not limit men. Men limit men." "We are," asked Kudra, "as deserving of immortality as the gods?" 
"Thou hast not deserved immortality because thou hast been too puny in thy mind and heart and soul. Sniff." 
"But we can change that?" Kudra's voice was hopeful. "We can expand our minds, and enlarge our souls, and choose life over death?" 
"Sniff sniff. Thou hast that potential." 
Alobar was nodding his head excitedly, and Kudra wore a smile that you could mail a letter in. An eleventh-century letter, written on parchment, rolled into a cylinder and tied with thongs. The Charmer was still cruising the patchouli patches. 
"Great Pan," said Alobar, with a degree of reverence, "I used to be king over a state, but now I am king over myself." 
"Dearest Pan," said Kudra, with more than a degree of intimacy (in the preceding night, after all, she and the god had left no sexual stone unturned), "I used to weave rope, but now 1 weave my world." 
"Methinks thou doth speak from freedom not from vanity," said Pan, "and I lift my wineskin to thee, for thou art rare among humans. Sniff." He squirted a stream of wine into his ugly, yet sensual, mouth. Red rivulets ran into his beard to disappear there, sopped up, perhaps, by whorls of thirsty wool. "Ah, but Alobar, doth thou not recall my telling thee that gods art immortal for only so long as the world believes in them? Thou hast only to look at me to see how a god dwindles when belief in him dwindles. Immortality has its conditions. Immortality has its limits. And immortality has its dangers. Whatever thou hast learned about death from thy wise men in the East, thou wouldst do well to remember ..." 
"Yes? Go on," urged Alobar. "What, Pan? Remember what?" asked Kudra. 
It was no use. Pan had finished speaking and would say no more. Nor would he sniff at himself again, for, incredibly, his native odor had peeled away the perfume that masked it; had slowly burned through the potent excess of patchouli like a sunray blazing its way through a purple fog, and now, after less than an hour of suppression, the goat gas—that chloride compound of barnyard and bedroom—was boiling again, filling the grotto with a sleazy vapor, a steam to press a rooster's pants. 
With the return of Pan's stink, there came renewed mischief in his eyes. When he scampered to the cave to fetch his pipes, Kudra and Alobar began hastily to dress. "We have a long journey ahead of us," they explained, and with a curious mixture of relief and regret, they bade their divine host a fast farewell. 
Neither of them spoke until they reached the pasture, where they stopped to catch their breath after the rigorous descent. There, sitting against the base of the cliff, sequins of sweat sewn to their brows, they regarded one another as pilgrims —or survivors—do. Kudra folded her hands over her uterus, where some very strange little swimmers had recently drowned. Alobar issued a sigh that was shaped like a funnel: a full quart of beet juice could have been poured through it. 
"We shan't forget him for a, time," said Alobar. "We shan't forget him, ever." "Then you weren't disappointed?" 
"You mean disappointed that he wasn't more like Krishna? Not in the end, I wasn't." If Kudra was aware of her pun, she failed to betray it. "The only disappointment I feel is in his reticence to advise us." 
"He is Pan. He doth not give advice." At that, Kudra jumped, and so did Alobar, for it was a third party that had said it. The voice, which came from the bushes just above them, was soft and nonthreatening, and in a moment the branches parted, revealing a woman, as bare-assed as butter. Alobar recognized her as the elder—perhaps the leader—of the nymphs; the one who had addressed him on serious matters the last time he was in that neck of the woods. 
"Pardon me, my lady, my gentleman, for following thee." 
"Pardon granted," said Alobar, "although you did give us a start. Kudra, may I present ..." 
"Lalo," she said, "sister of Echo whose voice, alas, thou nearest repeating thee in all hollow places. Lalo. I only wanted to thank thee for thy visit to Pan. It brought him cheer at a time when his cheer is in short supply." 
 
"Really?" asked Kudra. "From the way he greeted us at the beginning and dismissed us at parting, he did not strike me as overjoyed by our presence." 
"He is Pan," said Lalo rather sharply. "Didst thou expect him to bow and kiss thy hand?" 
Kudra blushed. Alobar extended his arm to assist Lalo down onto flat ground. The nymph was not quite as nimble as she once had been. "How grave is Pan's condition?" asked Alobar. "Surely he shan't succumb. Pan is in this land, in its "crags, in its cataracts, its winds, its meadows, its hidden places, he can never go from the land, he will be here always, as long as the land is." 
"Two things I wouldst say to thee on that account," responded Lalo. "First, the conclusion that a wise homer— forgive the expression, sir—wouldst draw from Pan's admission that he lives only so long as men believe in him, is that men control the destiny of their gods. Thou mightst even say that men create their gods, as much as gods create men, for as I, untutored oread that I be, understand it, it is a mutual thing. Gods and men create one another, destroy one another, though by different means." 
A whistle escaped Kudra's lips. "Could such a thing be? Yes, if lack of man's belief is what is ailing Pan, it must be true." 
"A warning!" snapped Lalo, who at that moment sounded more like a Fury than a nymph. "Thou must never wax smug or arrogant about thy influence upon the divine. If thou didst create gods, it was because thou needest them. The need must have been very great indeed, to inspire such a complex, difficult, and magnificent undertaking. Now, many art the men who think they no longer needeth Pan. They have created new gods, this Jesus Christ and his alleged papa, and they think that their new creations will suffice, but let me assurest thee that Christ and his father, as important as they may be, are no substitutes for Pan. The need for Pan is still great in humanity, and thou ignoreth it at thy peril. 
"That bringeth me to the second thing," Lalo continued. Her deep-set eyes were burning, her wine-red nipples were as erect as toy soldiers. "Thou art correct, Pan doth be in the land, he and the wildwoods art a part of one another, but thou art mistaken when thou implieth that the land doth last eternal. There be a time coming when the land itself be threatened with destruction; the groves, the streams, the very sky, not merely here in Arkadia but wildwoods the world over 
..." "Inconceivable," muttered Alobar. 
"If Pan be alloweth to die, if belief in him totally decomposes, then the land, too, wilt die. It wilt be murdered by disrespect, just as Pan is murdered." 
Alobar looked around him. In every direction as far as he could see, fierce outcroppings of gray stone, green curves of pasture, uncompromising slopes, spiny shrubs and delicate poppies (unlikely partners in a fling ordered by a reckless breeze), mountains teeming with invisible springs, clouds lying like oatcakes upon the blue tablecloth of sky, all of this seemed so inviolable that he could not entertain the notion of its vulnerability, and he said as much to Lalo. 
"Just the same," the nymph answered, "shouldst thee continue to be successful in thy pursuit of long life, thou wilt see it transpire before thine eyes. Thus, I urge thee to protect Pan's dominions and reputations wherever thou mightst go. It be especially thy duty, not merely as a subject of Pan, but because thou, Alobar, art a prime practitioner of individualism, and it wilt be this new idea of individuality that leadeth many future men astray, causing them to feel superior to Pan, and thus to the land, which they wilt set upon to rape and spoil." 
A ripple of annoyance like the shock wave from a splat of buzzard guano, zigzagged along Alobar's forehead. "Nymph," he said, puffing himself up like a pigeon, "I do not know if I enjoy you telling me what my duty is." 
"Alobar ..." Kudra's tone was meant to be conciliatory. 
"Nor would I describe myself as a subject of Pan's. As for your attack on individualism ..." 
"Good sir, I do not attack thy philosophy. I only warn that it be a dangerous instrument in the unfeeling hands of the foolish and corrupt." 
"Please inform me, then," said Alobar sarcastically, holding his stuffy pose, "by what authority a cunt-of-the-woods issues warnings concerning the future. Among your more obvious talents—" 
"Alobar!" This time, Kudra's voice was prickly with disapproval. 
"—-do you harbor the gift of prophecy?" 
"Alas, I cannot make that claim for myself, sir, but ere I romped in Arkadia, I lived for years at Delphi, where I was intimate with the priests and priestesses who served the Oracle, and where I wast privy to much oracular prognosis. Now I can sense that the boldness of my speech hast ruffled thy feathers, nevertheless thou must hear yet another prophetic plea. Certainly thou dost recollect Pan's words to the effect that mankind hast been too puny in his mind and heart and soul to deserve immortality. Yea? And certainly, also, to have conquered age to the extent that thou hast, thou must have done good strengthening work in thine own mind and heart and soul. Someday, however, a thousand years from today, there wilt be men who seek to defeat death by intelligence alone. They wilt combat age and death with potions and the like, medical weapons that their minds have invented, and age and death will shrink back from them and their medicines. Alas, because they fight with reason only, making no advance in the area of soul and heart, true immortality wiltst be denied them. However, they must not be allowed to attain even the false immortality that their mental facility doth gain for them, for huge evil will be conducted if they shouldst. Thus, thou must vow upon this day that shouldst thou be living still when these events transpire, that thou willst battle them and refuseth prosperity to any immortalist thrust that doth not rise from man's soul and heart as well as his mind. Do promise me now." 
"I am sorry," said Alobar, "but I cannot do that. Your intentions are good, so therefore 1 shall consider your request, but I do not make promises to just anyone about just anything." 
The nymph whirled, intent upon returning to the thickets, but Kudra detained her. "Lalo," she called. "My husband claims, with some justification, to be king over himself, yet this morning he has momentarily lost sovereignty over his masculine pride. While he struggles to regain government over that portion of his kingdom, I wish to offer you my own promise, for what it is worth. It is presumptuous to imagine myself alive a thousand years hence, but should that miracle occur, I will do what I can to satisfy your plea. I promise." 
"Thank thee, my lady, I thank thee well. If Pan were aware of these matters, I am sure he wouldst express his gratitude at great length." She winked at Kudra. Kudra winked back. For a second, the two women, the one statuesque and umber, the other petite and rosy, smiled at one another knowingly. Then, as 
quick as a rabbit (a rabbit with a touch of arthritis), Lalo shot into the bushes and was gone. 
Alobar made to speak, but Kudra hushed him. "Look up there," she whispered. High above them, barely visible upon the very pinnacle of the mountain, illuminated in the most resplendent manner by noonday sun, heel and horn almost silver, almost holy; stance jaunty yet solemn, regal yet a bit ridiculous; bearded head held at an angle suggestive both of an affection for the variety of life 'round about it and a suffering as primeval and sharp as the peak itself, stood Pan, reeds to lips, and though they scarcely could hear his tune, they felt it in the greasy stirring of the poppies and the mute breath of the snake that sunned itself on a nearby ledge. They watched him in silence for a while, inexplicable tears in their eyes; then Alobar, assisted, it seems, by sister Echo, yelled up the slope, "Lalo! Lalo! I promise, also! I promise! You have my word word ord ord." 
Kudra gave him a sloppy kiss. She took his hand. She clasped the teapot. Off they went, over the pastures, breathing in the circular Bandaloop way, locked in a silence finally broken by Kudra's laughter when Alobar lit up her other shoe. 
If wild animals could talk, would they talk like cartoons? Would the dismal swamp resound with shrill, befuddled, childlike voices; a cute choir of cuddly Kermits delivering gentle froggy inanities? 
Or would beasts converse in the style of Hemingway, in sentences short, brave, and clear; each word a smooth pebble damp with blood; aboriginal speech, he- man speech, an economy of language borrowed by Gary Cooper from frontiersmen who borrowed it from Apache and Ute? 
We ask, "Did you see two people pass this way, a man and a woman, walking north?" 
The stag shakes its antlers. "Nope," he says. 
"The woman was dark with a ripe body, the man had white in his hair. Sure you didn't spot them?" 
"Yep." 
 
"Well, how about you?" we ask a fox. "Have you seen a couple in Byzantine garb heading in the direction of Bohemia?" 
The fox is slow to speak. "Tonight I dined on loon at the pond," he says. "It was a good meal. Food has an excellent place in my values. Quiet has an excellent place in my values. The forest has been quiet tonight. It is a good thing being a fox when the forest is quiet." 
"We apologize for disturbing your peace, but we're searching for a husband and wife, racially mixed, who may be in sort of a daze because they recently had an audience with Pan—you know what that means—and are either wandering aimlessly through the woodlands trying to figure out what to do next, or else are making their way by the stars to Bohemia, where the man at one time—longer ago than you might imagine—had an important job and a large family. They may have passed this way." We pause hopefully. 
"The hunt was good," says the fox. "The moon was right. There was a fresh breeze. A man and a woman would have spooked the loon. What a good thing the forest is when it is left to the fox and the loon." 
Is that the way animals would talk? 
As it turned out, Alobar and Kudra did pass through that forest, before or after the fox's dinner; did hike, guided by constellations, northward across Serbia, Croatia, and the Kingdom of Hungary, arriving in the summer of 1032 (or thereabouts) in that area where the feudal state of Bohemia bordered the Slavic territories. There was no trace of Alobar's former citadel. It had burned, like much of the ancient world, in the medieval furnace, its ashes swept under the rolling carpet of civilization. Compared to Western Europe, Bohemia and the Slavic territories were still wild and thinly populated, offering many a fox a place to linger over a bit of loon, like some remote animal ancestor of Ernest Hemingway, but even there in the Eastern backwash, the gold-dust twins, Christianity and Commerce, had set up their crooked wheel of fortune. 
Kudra had the odd feeling that she had been there before. Alobar stared into the lacquered' grapes of her eyes and asked if the name "Wren" meant anything to her. "Nothing," she insisted. They didn't speak of it again, but the deja kept right 
 
on vuing. Once, Alobar saw a huge hound at a distance. "Mik!" he cried, running after it. The dog turned on him and might have chewed off some of his best parts had not its owner intervened. Ghosts are good for short-term thrills, in the long run they're boring. Alobar and Kudra departed for Aelfric, but not before purchasing a sack of beets. 
Aelfric was four or five times its previous size. It had a wall around it. "Why do you wish to enter here?" asked a soldier at the gate where orchards used to stand. Alobar peeked in at the narrow, crooked streets, deep in garbage, flowing with sewage; dark shadows enlivened by the chirping of rats. If this is what people must resort to in order to operate their shops and worship their Jesus, perhaps they should return to the hunt and the morning star, thought Alobar. "State your business," demanded the guard. By then, Alobar had lost considerable interest in searching for his progeny. "Bandaloop business," he said brightly. The guard scowled, but his feet executed an abrupt and completely involuntary dance step, leaving the soldier staring at his own boots, as if he might arrest them for lewd conduct, or, at least, insubordination. Alobar and Kudra hurried away only to pause a short while later near the place where the shaman had lived. 
"Why are we stopping in this field?" asked Kudra. 
"I have to replace a door," replied Alobar, but what he did was build a fire and roast beets. 
"I take it we are not to explore Aelfric," said Kudra. 
"Wasn't a glimpse enough? If your grandchildren were citizens of Aelfric, would you be anxious to meet them?" 
"Maybe. Out of curiosity-." 
"My curiosity does not extend to dung beetles, even if they crawled out of my family tree. Besides, if I am truly immortal, I am my own grandchild, my own descendant, my own dynasty. I am not obliged to live on through what I pass down to others." 
"Then pass me a beet," said Kudra. And he did. 
 
The Middle Ages hangs over history's belt like a beer belly. It is too late now for aerobic dancing or cottage cheese lunches to reduce the Middle Ages. History will have to wear size 48 shorts forever. 
In the pit of that vast stomach—sloshing with dark and vinegary juices, kindled by a thousand-year heartburn—major figures stimulated acute contractions, only to be eventually digested, adding to the bloat. Clovis, Charlemagne, Otto I, William the Conqueror, Rurik the Viking, Pope Leo, Thomas Aquinas, Johann Gutenberg, and a platter of other renowned generals, kings, philosophers, and popes fermented and dissolved in that mammoth maw. Our little couple, however, our Alobar and Kudra, remained intact and indigestible, like the hard octopus beaks that sicken the stomachs of whales, causing them to vomit the ambergris that bonds the bouquet in great perfumes. Like octopus beaks, our couple. Or maraschino cherries. 
More than a decade after his death, Nikolai Lenin's body was removed from its sepulcher in the Kremlin and a belated autopsy performed. Four maraschino cherries were found in Lenin's colon. Perfectly preserved, as whole and candy red as the day (or days) that he swallowed them, the cherries were in better shape than Lenin himself. It is rumored that maraschino cherries are prepared with a chemical resembling formaldehyde, thus can neither be assimilated nor eliminated but must ride in the baggage rack of the bowels for a lifetime, like the seabags of the Flying Dutchman. If that is the case, and one is prepared to believe the worst of maraschino cherries, looking, as they do, as if they were picked in the orchards of Pluto; as if they were carved out of spoiled neon; as if they were vegetable visitors from the twenty-third century, beamed here to make us appreciate our old-fashioned beets; if it is true, then we could say that Alobar and Kudra were maraschino cherries lodged in the tubes of history's paunch. 
On the other hand, octopus beaks, pointing to the birth of future fragrances, might be a more accurate and lyrical analogy. 
At any rate, Alobar and Kudra survived wars, robbers, fires, pillages, plagues (including the Black Death of 1347-1350) and the intolerances of the Church; survived freezing winters, famines, Gothic art, and uncomfortable furniture; survived, most importantly, the "natural" process of aging, which, according to Dr. Wiggs Dannyboy, is so unnaturally cruel that only man could have ordained it—neither nature nor God would stoop so low. 
Should one be shallow enough to view existence as a system of rewards and punishments, one soon learns that we pay as dearly for our triumphs as we do for our defeats, and the couple's victory over aging created as many problems for them as did witchhunts and feudal strife. Nowhere could they remain for more than a decade or two. In those rough times, people aged even faster than we do today, making it all the more noticeable when Kudra s and Alobar's gums remained a-bristle with teeth. They did their best to maintain a low profile, but, let's face it, they weren't the most inconspicuous pair to mosey down the medieval pike. For one thing, they were obviously frying with love and lust for one another in an age when romance simply did not exist within the bounds of matrimony. Virtually all marriages in the Middle Ages were arranged between strangers, and the Church disallowed divorce. Therefore, romantic love was almost exclusively a function of adultery. It was for adulterers that troubadours sang their courtly ballads, it was for the attention of another fellow's wife that the jouster risked the lance. When Alobar and Kudra refused to participate in the continental pastime (in their centuries together, Alobar was cuckolded only by Pan, and that was not precisely cuckoldry, that was . . . something else), it escalated the suspicions already aroused by her exotic coloration and his regal manner, by their funny way of breathing and their tendency to wash. So they were obliged to keep moving. A few years in Heidelberg, a few near Rome; green seasons in Flanders, dry seasons on Crete. Fortunately, they subscribed to no magazines. The post office would have gone nuts. 
Early in the 1300s, attending the fair at Beaucaire in the south of France, they encountered a group of people whose proclivity for travel made Kudra and Alobar seem as though they were chained to a stump. These nomads rumbled from town to town, fair to fair, in brightly colored wagons. Variously called Logipciens, Bohemians, or Gypsies, they were ostensibly itinerant metalworkers, but music and magic were their true vocations. Although the Gypsies were new to Europe, Kudra had known them in India and could converse in their dialect. Moreover, her pigmentation was the same shade as theirs. Their chief invited her to join them. Reluctantly, he agreed to include Alobar. 
For the next half-century (time flies when you're having fun), they lived as Gypsies, bumping over the quasi-roads of the continent in a red and orange donkey cart, sleeping in a tent of woven fabrics kept precariously in place by stones, warming themselves with tezek, that charming fuel made of cow dung and straw. They indulged in some serious horseshoeing and harness making, but more frequently their band earned its living amusing, and sometimes fleecing, 
visitors to holy sites, festivals, and feirs. The Gypsies danced, they sang and strummed, they navigated a pea beneath a walnut shell so slickly you'd wager your last sou that it was beneath the one next door. When they shook their tambourines and sistrums, in voluptuous poses, feudal barons found them irresistible, but that made them all the more hateful in the eyes of the pious and grave, a reaction that was for Alobar a source of endless delight. Kudra chided him for it mildly, but he was rarely happier than when savoring the fear and disgust that welled up in proper Christians at the sight of their rattling, tinkling troupe. 
The opinion that "all good things must come to an end" is a confession of fatalism that the immortalist hand of Alobar would never sign. Nonetheless, he realized his days as a Gypsy were numbered when he surprised several of the chiefs sons ransacking his and Kudra's belongings, searching for their presumed "elixir of youth." As a matter of feet, their tent and wagon had been broken into thrice before, but Alobar had written it off to routine Gypsy thievery and to the Gypsies' insistence on treating them as second-class citizens. Claiming to be the direct descendants of the biblical Cain, the Gypsies considered themselves a race elite. It was obvious that their ethnocentricity would never allow complete acceptance of outsiders, no matter how compatible. They not only stole from Kudra and Alobar, but they also served them last at communal meals and required them to perform occasional menial chores. For example, on Saturdays Kudra was expected to clean the chiefs wagon and launder his many brilliant scarves. 
It was while she was sweeping out the executive cart one day that she noticed that the chiefs wife's famous crystal ball had been left uncovered. For a while Kudra managed to ignore the naked sphere, but at last curiosity got the best of her and she peered into it, shyly at first, then so piercingly that the chiefs laundry could have been hung out to dry on her gaze. She saw nothing in the ball. There was nothing to see. It was, after all, a mere lump of polished glass. As a point of departure for the psyche, however, a crystal ball has merit, although a mandala, a seashell, or a cigarette pack can be as effectively employed. There are apparently few limitations either of time or space on where the psyche might journey, and only the customs inspector employed by our own inhibitions restricts what it might bring back when it reenters the home country of everyday consciousness. When Kudra shut her eyes to rest them after their intense probing of the crystal innards, a vivid scene unfolded in her mind. She saw Alobar and herself, bound with rope, in the process of being tortured by the Gypsies, who were demanding 
a map to the fountain of youth. 
When she returned to their tent, Kudra told Alobar of her vision. "That settles it," he said. That night, when the moon had set, they stole away. As they disappeared into the woods, they glanced back to see shadowy figures advancing on their tent. 
In the excitement of their escape, Kudra had neglected to inform Alobar that she had consulted the crystal ball a second ime ere she left the chiefs wagon that Saturday. A finely detailed scene had again flashed before her mind's eye as she rested after examining the crystal. This second vision seemed far less urgent, which is why she put it aside, but it was stranger, more difficult to interpret. In it, a tall black man, blacker by several shades than she, was beckoning to her, laughing all the while. The black man wore the oddest clothes she had ever seen, and the oddest item in his wardrobe was his cap. It turned out to be not a cap at all, but a swarm of bees. 
Although finished with Gypsies, per se, Alobar and Kudra retained their vagabond life-style, working the European fair circuit on their own. Alongside booths overflowing with cotton, furs, metals, wine, tea, Venetian glass, meat, produce, and livestock, they sold or traded aromatics to a populace that was beginning to appreciate pretty fragrances, despite—or because of—the fact that it had yet to accept the concept of the bath. When business was poor, Kudra slipped into her Gypsy skirt and danced the dodole, Alobar accompanying her on tambourine. Less than approving of the leers his wife's dancing elicited from fairgoers of masculine gender, it nonetheless amused Alobar to meditate upon her real birthdate as she undulated those secretly ancient hips and loins; and, of course, it invariably elevated his mood when the priests came by to consign them to hell for their detestable display. 
Actually, the priests proved to be good customers after Kudra decided to start manufacturing combustible cones from the raw aromatics in which she customarily dealt. Influenced by the Byzantines, the Western Church had become increasingly fond of the ritualistic burning of incense, ostensibly as an evocation of the sweet oxygens of heaven, but more likely a way of combating the concentrated funk of sweaty congregations. It appeared as if incense might become a rage in the cathedrals of Paris, so Alobar was not overly surprised when Kudra announced one morning that she wished to settle in the French capital and open a permanent shop. 
"A shop might be a smart idea;" agreed Alobar, "but when you say 'permanent, you mean, of course, permanent compared to our usual knocking about." They had been on the road for several centuries. 
"No," said Kudra. "I mean permanent." 
"I needn't remind you of the troubles in store should we hang around long enough to flaunt our perpetual freshness before the envious eyes of our steadily decaying fellow citizens. Ahem. We can realistically expect fifteen, maybe twenty years as Parisian incense merchants. But that will be a welcome change, a nice recess, and when the time comes, we shall move on." 
"I am not moving on. I am finished with moving on. I want a shop, I want a home, and I want to stay there." 
"Stay," repeated Alobar. "How long, exactly, do you intend to stay?" "As long as ... I don't know. As long as it damn well pleases me." 
"Well, it better not please you beyond fifteen years or so, because when it dawns on the neighbors that we aren't aging—" 
"But maybe I will age." 
"What?"' 
Kudra gave him a look that you could spread on a bun. Her words, however, pricked him like the knife that does the spreading. "We are capable of aging, if we want to. We stopped the aging process and we can start it again. Haven't we fallen into a rut, being the same age for over five—or is it six—hundred years? 1 don't know about you, but I am a little fed up with it. I really wouldn't mind aging again." 
Alobar couldn't believe how calmly, serenely even, she had spoken the unspeakable. Icy fingers tickled the harpsichord keys of his vertebrae. "You— you don't know what you're saying. Here, let me pour you some tea. You aren't awake yet, that's your problem." 
"I am awake, darling. I have been awake most of the night. And the night before. I have thought about this through more sleepless nights than you could shake a 
tambourine at. And I am ready, willing, and actually eager to settle down in one place like normal people, and grow older like normal people. I am." 
Alobar held back, refusing to speak until his vocal cords could be trusted not to quiver. Alas, he waited too long, overshot the mark, and heard his voice go well beyond evenness into petrification. The finest stone carver in France would have been proud to chisel his mark on any word in the following sentence: "Aging seems a high price to pay for normalcy." 
"I do not care. I am willing to pay it. Besides, if I do not like getting older, I can always stop." 
"Can you?" Simple little question chipped from solid basalt. "How do you know for sure?" Six words weighing in at a ton, not including punctuation. "We believe that we can start it and stop it at will, but the feet is, we have never tried. What if you cannot stop it, what if you just keep on growing older until, until ..." The voice had become so rigid that it cracked. That's how molecules behave today, and that's how they behaved back then, though in those days nobody blamed molecules for brittleness any more than they credited them for plasticity. 
"Until what? Until I die? First of all, Alobar, neither you nor I is convinced that aging has to automatically lead to death. We have talked about that many times. Where is the courage of your convictions? It is not aging that leads to death, it is the belief that aging leads to death that leads to death. Do I speak rightly or wrongly?" 
"You are probably right," squeaked Alobar, in his newly broken voice. "We do not know for certain." 
"There is only one way to find out." "But what if—" 
"What if I die? Then, by Shiva, I die! Dying does not strike me as such a horrible fate anymore." 
"I cannot believe you are saying this. You are reverting. You are regressing. You are—" 
"I am facing the truth," Kudra interrupted, "and the truth is, there is nothing so 
almighty wonderful about this long life of ours." He recoiled as if she'd spit on him. She took his hand, kissing each spear-nicked finger in turn. "Darling," she said, "look at us. We are a couple of Gypsies, running from the dogs of authority. From town to town we go, fair to fair, sleeping in fields, eating those awful mangel-wurzels, selling pretty smells to hypocrites, and hardons to yeomen. Where is the value in that? What is the purpose of—" 
"We are alive!" shouted Alobar. "And there—" 
"And there is not another couple like us on this whole round planet. Well, so what? Our uniqueness doesn't make the ground softer or give the beets flavor. It doesn't improve feudal conditions or reduce violence or contribute to the welfare of the people. What important thing have we accomplished in all these past six hundred years?" 
"We have beaten death," said Alobar, and his tone was as firm and even as it had ever been. More than that, it was proud. "We have beaten death. What everyone who has ever been born since the beginning of time has longed to do, we have done. What could be greater than that?" 
"To what end have we beaten death? We can't teach others how to beat it, or else the Church would come down on us and wipe us out, and those we taught in the bargain. We can't sell this grand knowledge, for the very same reasons. We are forced to hide our supreme accomplishment as if it were a shameful crime. Where is the glory in that? Our lives are selfish and covert and none too easy. Methinks that you had a greater life back when you were mortal. You were a king then, Alobar, a leader of men, and every day, every hour, was charged with significance." 
"And threatened by the Reaper. Charged, but threatened, because to the Reaper a king is no less fodder than a slave. In my clan, a king was actually an easier harvest." 
"Threatened by death you may have been, but look what a life it was that was threatened! And look at it now, my ragged Gypsy—" 
"We are about to move to Paris!" "Yes. I to ply the incense maker's trade, you, noble warrior, to be my assistant." 
She paused. Together, they watched the sun break through the morning fog, coming back to the deserted fairgrounds like a dandy returning to the boulevard, prepared, when the moment was right, to strut some stuff. With a clover stem, Kudra traced the pathway of Alobar's veins, through which such endless tides of blood had run; she kissed the forehead that had been greeted by so many rising suns. 
"For you," she said, "longevity for longevity's sake is enough. 
That is no longer satisfactory to me. Is there a position in the Kama Sutra that we have not mastered, a recipe for mangel-wurzel that our cook pot hasn't memorized? Oh, darling, I know that life is good, and that it still holds surprises for me, but maybe death is good, too; certainly it offers some surprise. Relax, now, don't get upset. My destination is an incense shop, not a tomb. But if I must age to have a happier life, then I will. And should aging lead to death, then I shall explore the planet of death awhile. Certainly I have been on the terrestrial voyage a nice long while. Long enough, frankly, that despite my love for you I do grow bored." 
"I will wager that death be a million times more boring than life." 
"If so, I shall come back to life. If we are truly immortal, we ought to be able to travel back and forth between both sides." 
"Ha!" scoffed Alobar. "Yes, we ought to be able to. We ought to, all right, and if we had remained in the caves long enough, we probably could. We might have been able to dematerialize and rematerialize at will. But we cannot. At least, there is no hard, evidence that we can. You talk about facing truth. The truth is, Kudra, we hardly know what we are doing. There is so much more to this immortality business, so much more we might have learned from the Bandaloop, but, no, you had to go and see the world, you could not wait, so here we are half- educated and half-assed, conducting the greatest experiment in human annals and not fully qualified to conduct it correctly, just groping in the dark like mice in a bin. Why, oh why, did I let you talk me into leaving the caves before we had all the answers? Well, I can tell you one thing, you are not going to talk me into aging. If you want to risk it, go ahead, but you are stupid." 
Kudra released his hand. "I may be stupid," she said, "but I am not a coward." And the sun pulled a cloud down over its ears. And the wind set to whistling a 
distracting tune. And crows that had been breakfasting on fairgrounds crumbs glanced at some clock or other and realized that they were late for work. And the cookfire flames retreated into the soundproof cellar of ashes. And the tea in the teapot nearly broke its neck in its haste to evaporate. 
There's an old axiom: "A couple's first quarrel is Cupid's laxative." 
The next worst thing to a quarrel is a compromise. They made one at once. 
Since Alobar had been nearly forty chronological years older than Kudra from the start, it was agreed that Kudra could permit herself to age for four decades, more or less, stopping when she had "caught up" with her mate. If she could stop, that is. As for Alobar, he would cross his bridges as he came to them. 
They did move to Paris, they did open an incense shop. It was located on the rue Quelle Blague, next door to a brewery and perfumery, across the street from a monastery and cathedral. It did all right. Their marriage (it is fair to call it a marriage, though no formal ceremony ever transpired) did all right, too, which is to say the champagne was for from flat, although there were fewer bubbles per sip than there had been before the arguing started. They argued always about the same thing. It's best that way. If lovers have to argue, they might as well specialize. And the arguments usually concluded with Alobar's complaint that they had left the academy of the Bandaloop before they had completed their course. 
(Oddly enough, he refrained from pressuring her to return to the caves for additional study, perhaps because he was of the opinion that after so long a time there were no vibrations left to "study." If Fosco of Samye could be believed, the Bandaloop had left the caves for good. Dance craze? Argen-what?) 
If they ever reached a point where they seriously considered separation, it would have been in the cruel winter of 1664, a season that no amount of firewood nor any variation on the Kama Sutra could quite warm. Yet right in the middle of the shivers and the shouts, something came along to bind them, a slapdash patch job by the mason of common cause. 
  
Darkness arrived so abruptly that day it was as if a Gypsy had swept Paris under a walnut shell, good luck, ye gamblers, on guessing which one. By four o'clock, the street lamps were lit. Despite being called to work early, the lamps flickered dutifully, as though lighting a path for the snow. The snow would be along any minute. The clouds promised it and the lamps believed them. Alobar believed them, too. He also believed that there would be no more customers through the door that day, so he bolted it against thieves (a Gypsy who would steal daylight would surely steal incense) and the gales of January. Rejoined Kudra in the backroom. 
Paying him little heed when he entered, Kudra remained bent over a large candle, heating some newly purchased storax resin in a metal cup. "It's cold in here," Alobar said. "Umm," she answered, without looking up. As it relaxed its grip on itself, the wad of storax caused the room to smell like the center of a chocolate cream. Sometimes when a stressful person relaxes, he or she will, in a similar fashion, perfume the air 'round about them. Alobar sat down and tried it. 
The candle glow that held Kudra's head like an object in a showcase allowed Alobar to count five silver hairs in her mane. He hadn't noticed them until then. It was all he could do to keep from crying out. He wondered if she knew. 
His thoughts flashed back to the afternoon that he met her, eight years old and sobbing, fleeing the funeral pyre. He thought of her in the Himalayas, dressed as a boy; the glossy black explosion her tresses had made when they tumbled from the turban. Then he thought of that fateful day when the concubines' mirror had shown him his own pale intruder. Such a chain of events that little fellow had set off! 
So still for so long was Alobar that when he finally spoke, Kudra flinched. She must have forgotten he was there. The corona of candlelight and the vanilla halo of storax ringed her concentrically, as if she were twice blessed, a double madonna. 
"Kudra," he said, "I have a splendid idea." "And what splendid idea is that?" she asked, her head still bowed to the task. "Let's sail to the New World." "The New World?" 
"Yes, the New World, the land they stumbled upon when they finally caught on that the Earth is round, as I, ahem, was saying all along." 
"Only fortune hunters and Christian fanatics go to the New World. We are neither of those." 
"Fortune hunters, Christian fanatics, and misfits. That last category describes us rather accurately." 
"You may be a misfit, Alobar. I am not. Not any longer, at any rate." 
He leaped to his feet and with two swift yanks reduced her silver quintet to a trio. Dropping the strands into the resin cup in front of her, he said, "In the New World, you wouldn't have to sacrifice your beautiful black hair." 
Kudra stared at the hairs in the cup. She may have denied that there were tears in her eyes, but the reflection of candlelight upon tearwater proved otherwise. 
"See those," said Alobar. "Those are worms from the rot of the grave." 
She squeezed her eyes shut. A single teardrop broke through the barricades and made a run for it, only to lose its footing and topple into the cup with the resin and the hairs. Was that a finer place than it had been? 
Alobar lay his hands on her shoulders and massaged them gently. "You don't have to go through this," he said softly. "We can sail to the New World." 
Kudra shook her head. "We made our own new world," she said, "but something has gone wrong with it. I guess new worlds grow old. Pan was right. Immortality has its limitations." 
"If only we had learned more in the caves!" "Oh, shit," said Kudra. "Not that again." "But, darling—" "Alobar, I'd like to be alone for a while." "But—" 
"Please, Alobar!" She picked the hairs from the storax and flicked them to the floor. The teardrop had vanished, whether absorbed by resin, evaporated by candle heat, or welcomed into some mystery dimension, we cannot determine. No reward was ever offered for its return. "Please. Let me be." 
So Alobar exchanged his slippers for boots that reached all the way to the hems of his knee breeches, pulled a woolen knee-length coat over his brocade waistcoat, tightened his lace collar until it pinched his Adam's apple, and went out into the night, where, by lamplight, the frosted cobblestone streets resembled marshmallow plantations at harvest time. Although he hadn't a destination in mind, he walked rapidly' soon finding himself in an obscene quarter of Paris, a squalid area without cobblestone or torch, an unpaved district whose frozen mud puddles reflected the shine of red lanterns. From every doorway, the lewd breath of prostitutes rose like hooks of smoke. Huddled against the cold, groups of them called to him as he passed, and he began to get ideas. A misunderstood husband usually is armed with a blunt instrument, its knob painted red like the face of a judge. 
The prostitute he eventually approached was tall and blonde. As they discussed rates, her companion, a dumpy, aged woman whom Alobar had not even considered, moved ever closer until she had wormed her way between him and the blonde. She had a rude, animal odor and so many wrinkles she could screw her hat on. Alobar was about to nudge her aside when the blond slapped her with her muff, saying, "Get along, Lalo. This one's not desperate enough to want you." 
"Lalo?" "Alobar! I thought that it be thee!" 
They shared a tearful embrace, then and there, while the blonde jeered and the first flakes of snow began to sift through the scarlet lanternshine. Then, he escorted her to the incense shop, walking slowly now for Lalo was a nymph no longer, but an old tart who had quit the brothels of Athens when the demand for her services waned. It was said that in Paris no whore was too old or too ugly to survive. 
Kudra was both saddened and delighted by the sight of her. She brought out their best cheese and served tea from the battered but cherished silver pot. Once Lalo 
was fed and warmed, they questioned her about Pan. The news was enough to sour the cheese. 
Pan was a ghost, now, Lalo said; you could look straight through him. His heartbeat was no stronger than a sparrow's. 
His pipes could still cause the flocks to shuffle their feet, could still raise the fuzz on a peasant's neck, but he lacked the vigor or the will to play them very often. Pan continued to visit men, according to Lalo, perhaps he always would, but in the modern world he came to them not in person, in sunlight, direct and immediate, but in dreams—erotic nightmares—or in flashes of terror, the kind that cause crowds to stampede for no reason, that they could neither explain nor understand. Lacking a direct relationship with Pan, modern Europeans were estranged from their flocks and their crops, from the natural world and, indeed, from their own natural impulses. "Grieve not just for Pan," said Lalo, in a voice as scratched as the teapot, "but for thyselves, as well." 
"And what of the nymphs?" asked Kudra. 
"It has been more than a century since Pan last chased a nymph. Without him in pursuit, the nymphs lost their identity, grew thin and mad. Many took their own lives. Others, like me, became whores to homers, seeking in each sexual coupling to recreate the old seduction, the old magic, the old feeling of unity." She sighed forlornly. "I don't know why I hold on, but I do." 
They put Lalo to bed in their flat upstairs. Then they took to their own bed, where, as the snow did its sums on the windowsill, they snuggled and talked, eventually formulating a plan of action: they would get Pan out of Europe. 
The New World was vast and virgin. They would make a place for him there, beneath smokeless skies where primitive equalities prevailed. Far from any city, they would establish a new Arkadia, complete with flocks of goats; and the pagan Indians, so hounded now by Christian missionaries, could join with them in a free landscape in which the old gods and goddesses would be given their due. Why, they would teach the Indians what they knew of Bandaloop immortality, and, moreover, Kudra would throw away her pennyroyal, and she and Alobar would at last have children of their own. They would found a race of immortals, with Pan as their principal deity. Yes! Wasn't this the grand destiny that had been eluding them all along?! They grew drunk with the vision of it 
while the sober snow looked on. 
When weather permitted, Alobar would strike out for Greece (Lalo could help Kudra with the business) to fetch Pan to Paris. They would nurse him back to health right there in the flat, while they saved and schemed for their passage across the Atlantic. 
"How much money have we on hand?" asked Alobar. "Here, let us get up and count it. I cannot wait to get started." 
Kudra pulled him back down into the blankets. "We can count when it is daylight," she said. "We have a new world to populate. I cannot wait to get started." 
Prior to his departure for Greece, Alobar filled Kudra to the brim. She was saturated. She launched squadrons of sperm every time she sneezed. They circled Paris like microscopic angels, looking for harp concerts in the snow. Wherever she went, she leaked, leaving snail trails, sticky and translucent, upon work stool, carpet, and carriage seat. Needless to say, there was Standing Room Only in her uterus. Nevertheless, she failed to conceive. That the topography of her tummy offered no challenge to his abilities as a climber was the first thing Alobar noticed when he returned from Greece to her embrace. The second thing he noticed, raising his disappointed gaze from the abdominal plane, was that there had been an exodus of gray from her hair and that the skin around her eyes, which had been cobwebbing with crinkles, was now as smooth as custard. In the eight months that he'd been away, she looked to have youthed a good eight years. 
"Kudra, you did it! You reversed it!" So pleased was he that he forgot, for the moment, the vacancy in her womb. "Was it difficult? Did you have to labor at it? Will you promise me that you will never backslide again?" 
She ignored his jabber and concentrated on Pan, if "concentrated" is the accurate verb. She could determine Pan's whereabouts in the room only by focusing her nostrils upon the epicenter of the caprine aroma that was causing her entire inventory of incense to cry "uncle" and edge toward the door. 
"Greetings, Kudra," said a familiar voice from the epicenter. "I thank thee for thy 
 
hospitality, puny and human though it be." 
"You are welcome, sir," said Kudra. "I think." She turned to Alobar. "It is rather perplexing talking to someone you cannot see." 
"Nonsense," said Alobar. "Thousands of Christians do it every day. At least this god will talk back to you." He shoved a wine flask into the eye of the stink storm. The flask tipped and pink Chablis commenced to gurgle out, though not a drop hit the floor. "I know what you mean, however. Traveling with an invisible who smells up the countryside is an ordeal I would hesitate to undertake again. I did not mind the stares and the insults and the occasional stone, but I have not enjoyed a warm meal or a decent night's rest since we left Arkadia. You would think rural innkeepers would be less particular." 
"I fear it shall present a problem in Paris, as well." 
"Indeed. He seems to have grown less observable and more pungent the further we journeyed from Greece. By the way, where's Lalo?" 
Kudra hesitated. "Uh, Lalo. Yes, well, Lalo left. Ran off with a sailor from Brittany." 
"How inconsiderate. She was supposed to assist you in the shop." 
"Lalo is a nymph, not a shopkeeper," said Pan. "She only did what she was meant to do." 
"Yes," agreed Kudra. "And you are a god of the woods and fields. How will you fare in this environment?" 
"Perhaps not well," said Pan. "Art thou aware that I be the lone god who never hast had a temple built in his honor? Tis true, not a single one. Men have always worshiped me outdoors." 
Alobar retrieved the flask, now half empty. "Our shop shall be your temple for a time. As soon as we are able, we shall transport you to greener pastures and wilder company. Meanwhile, you'll have to make do. There are parks nearby where you may roam. We must, of course, contrive a disguise for your odor. Kudra and I shall attend to that right away. Now that she has come to her senses and stopped aging, I am confident she can provide a scent for you and a baby for 
me with equal ease. Eh, Kudra?" 
Kudra nodded in tentative accord. Alas, the tasks assigned her proved about as easy as skinning a rhinoceros with a set of false teeth. 
She knew from experience that patchouli wouldn't cut Pan's mustard. Frankincense and myrrh might have reodorized the diapers of sweet Baby Jesus, but they disappeared in the goat god's gulf of funk like rowboats in the Bermuda Triangle; and sandalwood, clean, gentle sandalwood, lasted as long, to the minute, as a snowball in hell. A resinoid of storax, fixed with tincture of labdanum (pressed from the fatty arteries of the rockrose), proved a sufficient camouflage for a walk around the block, but it had no more staying power than patchouli. As for civet, it only compounded Pan's indigenous musk, making his presence felt all the more strongly. 
Within a fortnight, Kudra had exhausted her arsenal of aromatics. There was nothing to do but dip into their savings (the New World fund was growing very slowly) and purchase some perfumes from the monks next door. They would be unable to sail anyhow if they couldn't conceal from curious and repulsed noses their phantasmal friend. 
What was required was a perfume penetrating enough to obscure the bouquet of rutting goat, yet not so overpowering that it called undue attention to itself: there was little to be gained by moving from one extreme to another on the olfactory scale. Ideally, moreover, the scent should have the capacity to linger, because a free spirit such as Pan could not be expected to go around dabbing at his wrists and neckbones every hour, as if he were a husband-hungry marquise at a Versailles ball. 
There were critics who complained that at 23, rue Quelle Blague the beer tasted like lilac water and the perfumes smelled of hops. As to the quality of the beer we cannot testify—perhaps a taste of it today would leave us sadder Budweiser —but when it came to perfumery, the monks were not inexpert. They, in fact, laid the foundation for the French fragrance industry. The fragrance house of LeFever descended directly from their early operations. The Quelle Blaque monks were among the principal suppliers to the court of Louis XIV, where enormous amounts of perfumes were consumed. At the height of Versailles, 
 
twenty to thirty perfume fountains were gushing rosewater night and day, and the men wore squirt rings loaded with patchouli—when their mistresses approached, they fumigated themselves and the air about them with a fine spray. Louis himself changed his scent every thousand miles. But all this excess failed to compensate for the feet that the royal sewage was disposed of inadequately and that there was not one bath in the court. A visiting English writer wrote of Louis that "all the odoriferous perfumes his courtiers could get him would not ease his nose and still he smelled a filthy stinke." This was a century and a half before the emergence of the great master blenders, but despite the monks' Inability to put the Sun King's unwashed nose at rest, the fragrances they distilled were far from primitive. Could they lay the wreath on Pan? 
Hardly. Their famous rosewater was no match for his glandular output, and, one by one, he sent lily, lilac, lavender, and linden whimpering off with their 1's between their legs. It was a dark day for heliotrope when it was sprinkled upon the transparent god, and hyacinth was reduced to lowacinth in practically a flash. The monks' most expensive product was a recipe that mixed rose oil with cloves, cinnamon, mace, musk, ambergris, citron, and cedar. With some experimenting, Kudra probably could have duplicated it, but Pan was impatient and Alobar was worried, so they further fractured their finances and bought a vial. Expectantly, Kudra rubbed it into Pan's thigh wool, including in one of her passes the smooth underside of his scrotum, a swipe that gave him some pleasure and her some trepidation, for there is nothing quite like the intrusion of an invisible erection to thoroughly unnerve a woman. The old goat might have seized the moment— indeed, he reached for his pipes—had not Alobar threatened to address his private parts with a gesture appropriate to the preparation of eunuchs. So, Pan, richly anointed, departed for the grounds of the Louvre instead, only to return in a couple of hours, smelling all too familiar, and relating how his kibitzing, imperceptible to any eye, had disrupted a fashionable fete champetre. 
The most effective scent purchased from the monks proved to be an essence of jasmine. The raw flowers had come from t the South of France, where to this day 
are grown the finest jasmine blossoms in the world (unless one counts the Bingo Pajama Jamaican variety, about which virtually nothing is known). Ah, yes, leave it to jasmine to soothe the savage beast, for jasmine in its delightful way performs an olfactory pantomime of glad animal movements from times gone by. A few other flowers may be as sweet, but jasmine is sweet without sentiment, sweet without effeteness, sweet without compromise; it is aggressively sweet, outrageously sweet: "I am sweet," says the jasmine, "and if 
you don't like it, you can kiss my sweet ass." Expansive, yet never cloying; romantic, yet seldom melancholy, jasmine has the poise of a wild creature, some elusive self-sufficient thing that croons like an organic saxophone in the tropical night. Pan's glands heard jasmine's sugary howl and were hypnotized into partially suspending secretion. 
"Jasmine may stand us in good stead," said Kudra. "Alone, however, it falls short of perfection. Like a grand orator, it requires a somewhat lesser voice to introduce it. I am positive that a qualified master of ceremonies can be recruited, and failing at that, it would not be ruinous should it be forced to introduce itself. But what is a great orator without a strong platform to stand upon, without an enveloping auditorium to hold his words? Do you follow me? Jasmine is longer- lasting by far than any floral we have tried, but we must find a theater to contain it, an anchor, if you will, to keep it in place, because to be efficient it needs to endure at least thrice as long as it does now." 
In other words, they could use a top note and absolutely required a fixative and a base. 
Since they couldn't afford to commission such a blend from the monks, Kudra must develop it. She had worked with aromatics much of her long life—we are talking seniority here—but having had no experience with distillation, she was not in the true sense a perfumer. Fortunately, jasmine oil is obtained by extraction rather than distillation, and that she could manage. After a period of trial and error, she found lemony citron an acceptable top note; it gave the featured jasmine a brief but flattering introduction. As for fixative, ambergris was already in wide use, and while its detractors might deride it as "behemoth barf," a finer fixative has yet to be discovered. In this case, however, ambergris failed to deliver total satisfaction. It nailed the bouquet to the perfume, all right, but it didn't nail the perfume to Pan—at least not for very long. Since ambergris couldn't be improved upon, what this meant was that the base note, in addition to its usual function as an accommodating and complementing "platform," must also assist the fixative in prolonging the life of the aroma. A very special base note was called for. Kudra didn't find it right away. Months, in fact, dragged by as she experimented and researched. 
In the meantime, a sardonic cuckoo was scrambling Alobar and Kudra's nest eggs, replacing them with obnoxious layings of its own. 

At the appointed hour when courtiers of Louis XIV were finally to call at the shop to test its wares, Pan returned prematurely from a stroll in the park, his malodor at high mast due to exercise and the sappy influences of spring. The courtiers, three in number, arrived on his heels. "My goodness," said the first courtier; "Snit," said the second; "Phew," saiJ the third. Whatever credibility incense may have held for them was immediately lost. Lost, too, was the most profitable market to which Kudra had ever aspired. 
Pan's lasting impression also cost her several smaller sales, and this at a time when expenses were on the rise. As the hunt for an effective base note went on, money was continually being invested in raw materials that were of no use in incense making. And, now, of course, there was another mouth on the premises, a mouth that, though it could not be seen, watered at mealtime nonetheless. They had a cash flow problem, and unless it was solved, they would never ankle up that gangplank in Marseilles. 
In the midst of worrying about finances and Kudra's failure to conceive—none of his deposits seemed to earn interest— Alobar was stopped in the street one day by a neighborhood monk who inquired in the rude manner of children, policemen, and journalists if he and his wife employed heathen practices. The monk was no more specific than that, but Alobar instantly assumed the reference was to longevity. "You mean like that old Bandaloop, Methuselah?" he shot back, and as the Christian brother gargled the froth of his bewilderment, he hurried away in a chilly sweat to warn Kudra, rightly or wrongly, that they'd been found out once again. 
For all the reaction he got from Kudra, he might as well have told her that the poodle gods were pooping on the paths of the Louvre. She was up to her elbows in a basket of bark, the leprous but fragrant epidermis of some African tree; unraveling its history, reading its fortune, learning its language, its vocabulary of botanical suffering; coaxing from its ancient sores an iridescent pus that smelled of rains and nests and yellow fruits squashed beneath the feet of heavy animals. "This could be it," she confided, milking. A single bead of resin rolled out of an ulcer and was caught in a vial. Somewhere in Africa a tree stood naked. "This could be the one to support the jasmine." 
"Little good it will do if the monks set opinion against us." 
When she neglected to respond, he said, "Kudra, what is to be our next move?" "Express the bouquet from the resin." "No, no, haven't you been listening? There may be trouble over—" 
"Oh, that," she said. "Well, Alobar, I have been thinking. ..." She held another anguished crust of bark over the candle flame, squeezing and pulling until its black boil popped and out bubbled the feverish exudation, hard pearls of honey glistening as if in a prolonged delirium brought on by the pestilence of time. "I have been thinking that the altogether smartest thing would be to dematerialize —and then re-materialize in the New World." 
Alobar looked stunned. 
"Don't you see, that would save us money and time. We would not require a sou for passage nor would we be forced to bob about in the oceans with a horde of vomiting missionaries. Why, if Pan could dematerialize along with us—he is all but dematerialized already—we would not even need to complete his perfume. Locating the perfect base note may yet prove impossible." She sniffed unconfidently at the wooden warts in her fingers. 
"Kudra, we do not know how to de- and rematerialize!" 
"Then it is time we learned! Have we lived seven hundred years for naught? Except for our longevity, we are no closer to the divine than ordinary folk. Our practices have kept us alive, but they have not revealed to us one divine secret nor one speck of the magic of the gods." She laid down the ugly chips and faced him. He commenced to wring his hands. 
"Kudra . . ." he whined. 
"But for his age, Alobar the great individualist is just like any common man." 
"Kudra! We don't know—" 
"What happened to the bold adventurer who seduced me in more ways than one up on the roof of the world?" 
"Kudra! You are talking death, I sense that you are." 
"There is no death. There are only different levels of life. You must know that by now." 
"You who ran away from the funeral pyre! How can you speak with such authority?" 
Dealing the bark basket a blow, much as she'd once kicked a wicker of rope, Kudra sent it spinning, setting into motion a brief blizzard of scabious crumbs. 
"Damn you, Alobar! By the blue piss of Kali, how you frustrate me! How could any man venture as far as you have and then be unwilling to go further? Is it a failure of imagination that has snipped off your curiosity, or a failure of nerve that leaves you so eager to settle for the one concession you have won from the fates?" 
"One concession, eh? You make it sound so trivial. Let me tell you something, Kudra. Each and every morning when I awake, my eyes brim with tears at the realization that I am still here breathing when all who shared my natal day have for half a millennium been dust; each and every morning when first I see the dawn ray take your sleeping face tenderly in its tongs, I tremble in a kind of ecstasy that you and I continue to lie in love together, century after juicy century, while every other pair of lovers who have lived has had to helplessly watch their passion suffocate in the sags of their sickly flesh. Now that may strike you as some small, unworthy thing ..." 
Kudra took his cheeks in her hands (he was clean shaven then, in the seventeenth-century style) and kissed him. She shook her head from side to side, blinking back a few tears of her own. "No, my darling, it strikes me as magnificent beyond description." Again she kissed him. "But it happens not to be the end-and-all. If a person have a glass, does that mean he should refuse a bottle; if he have a bottle does it mean he should not want wine? Come now, darling, do not pull away, but hear me out. We have crossed the threshold of the house of divine knowledge, yet we linger in the anteroom admiring its wallpaper and shun the main chambers of the house. Why is it we resist exploring the mansion to which it has been our unique privilege to gain admission?" 
"Because," answered Alobar, "Death is the master of that house. My ambition has been to free myself from Death, not to visit him in his parlor and share tea." 
"Death is not a resident of the house. 'Death' is merely the name we give to 
certain rooms of the house, rooms that we, the so-called 'living,' fear for the simple reason that we have not passed through them." 
Alobar righted the overturned basket and began to pick up pieces of bark. "Again, my little refugee from suttee, I must question your authority in such matters." 
Kudra wished then to tell him the truth about Lalo, that the nymph had not run off with a mariner while Alobar was in Greece but had died, peacefully, happily, in the bed where Pan now slept; that she had attended Lalo's demise and, indeed, had followed her out of her body, traveling with her for a ways into the white light of the Other Side, until a sudden thought of Alobar caused her to turn back. Her concept of death was altered thereafter, and she wished to tell Alobar about that, as well, but she had promised the nymph to keep secret her passing. "The world must not think of nymphs as aged or dying," said Lalo, "for that runs counter to the girlish sexual things that we represent." Perhaps Lalo was vain to the end, but it must be noted that she cared about the world, even the modern world (whose replacement of cosmic order with a riotous contest between would-be equals had helped to kill her). 
"Listen," said Kudra. "When we were in the caves, we learned by experimenting, by trial and error, guided by some intelligence, perhaps divine, that radiated from the minerals there. What harm would there be in experimenting with dematerialization here in our shop? It is a temple of Pan now, after all. I feel strongly that we will be guided once again. The divine energy doesn't limit itself to some caverns in India. It is everywhere if we are only open to it. Trust my intuition, Alobar. What harm to try?" 
"Well, all right, I shall consider it," grumbled Alobar. "Just so long as it does not involve aging." 
She thumped him with a look of iron. "Should the monks or any other folk start to trouble us before we have either discovered dematerialization or a base note for Pan's perfume, then I shall age fast and furiously, without hesitation, and you would be wise to follow suit." 
At that, their quarreling commenced all over again. 
Their quarreling chewed through the curtains, pierced the casements, and rattled over the cobblestones outside. How strange it must have sounded, this quarreling 
about de-materialization, voluntary aging, goat gods, and immortality, to a city that was primed for the Age of Reason, a populace that was beginning to put Descartes before des horse. 
Although the contention that matter can transcend, at will, its material character would have had Descartes spinning in one or the other of his graves, a person who can believe in physical immortality is merely a step away from believing in dematerialization. Kudra believed in it and was prepared to experiment. Alobar probably believed in it but was reluctant— frightened, honestly—to pursue it. Wiggs Dannyboy of the Last Laugh Foundation, trained in the tradition of Cartersian doubt (deliberate suspension of all interpretations of experience that are not absolutely certain), had, unlike Kudra, never witnessed the Indian rope trick, nor had he, unlike Alobar, ever been flabbergasted by Bandaloop, yet to him the notion of material transcendence was credible. Perhaps that was because he was Irish. 
"Subatomic particles apparently de- and rematerialize fairly routinely," Dr. Dannyboy has written. "Some of them actually can be in two places at once. Their freedom from the normal confines of the space-time continuum is thought to be the result of a weird electricity, an intelligent, creative, playful, and unpredictable interaction among oppositely charged entities in motion." On at least one occasion, Dr. Dannyboy has described those energized particles'as "fairies," and, unfortunately, there is doubt that he was speaking metaphorically. But, again, he is Irish and, moreover, has swallowed in his day a lot of drugs. 
At any rate, Dr. Dannyboy continued: "We ourselves are built of subatomic particles (and the spaces in between them), and our organisms are electrically as well as chemically powered. Our cells, or something that occupies our cells, transmit an electrical pulse. When we breathe, bathe, eat, make love, and think the way that Kudra and Alobar did, we alter the cellular amperage until we find ourselves vibrating at the frequency of the eternal: immortality. 
"When interrogated about how they can walk through flames without being burned, 'primitives' have conveyed to anthropologists that they raise the vibratory level of their flesh to equal that of the fire. In like manner, then, an adept might raise—or lower—his or her vibratory rate to match that of another dimension, thereby disappearing from our customary universe and popping up in the other: dematerialization." 
From his vantage point in the twentieth century, Dannyboy was privileged to marshal a fair amount of scientific evidence that supposedly explains Alobar's and Kudra's accomplishments. No doubt, such data have their benefits, if for no other reason than that the couple's immortalist methodology often sounds too simplistic to be feasible: the result was far more dramatic than th° process, even though, for all practical purposes, the result was the process. 
Whether guided by a divine intelligence, as Kudra suggested, or inspired in some supranatural fashion by the absent Bandaloop doctors (maybe the Bandaloop were agents of a divine "intelligence), or simply informed by their own intuition, she and Alobar devised, during their residency in the caves, a program based upon the four elements: air, water, earth, and fire. If encouraged, Wiggs Dannyboy will expound upon each element in turn, detailing how it legitimately manifested itself in Kudra and Alobar's program. Dr. Dannyboy is simply mad for the subject of immortality and will yak about it until the cows come home, although the precise time and date of bovine arrival has yet to be reckoned to his satisfaction. 
At some later point, it might be rewarding to examine Dannyboy's arguments. For the moment, let it suffice to say that he has connected air to breath, water to bath, earth to food, and fire to sex, supplying a mixture of empirical fact and medical theory to support his case for the life-extending properties of this quartet, when ritualistic-ally and resolutely embraced. 
I-n addition, Dr. Dannyboy has suggested a fifth element: positive thought. Pointing out that their breathing, bathing, dining, and screwing brought Alobar and Kudra much physical pleasure, and that an organism steeped in pleasure is an organism disposed to continue, he has said that the will to live cannot be overestimated as a stimulant to longevity. Indeed, Dr. Dannyboy goes so far as to claim that ninety percent of all deaths are suicides. Persons, says Wiggs, who lack curiosity about life, who find minimal joy in existence, are all too willing, subconsciously, to cooperate with—and attract—disease, accident, and violence. 
Enough for now. In urbanized, technologized society—that institutional home for the orphans of Pan—there may be few who can even relate anymore to the Four Elements. At least not in any primal sense. V'lu Jackson, for example, once inquired of Madame Devalier if the Four Elements weren't some Motown jive group, while Ricki the bartender has defined the Four Elements as cocaine, champagne, pussy, and chocolate. 

Paris. April. Twilight. A few flat clouds folded themselves like crepes over fillings of apricot sky. Pompadours of supper-time smoke billowed from chimneys, separating into girlish pigtails as the breeze combed them out, above the slate rooftops. Chestnut blossoms, weary from having been admired all day, wore faint smiles of anticipation with the approach of the private night. Or else the blossoms were being tickled by the sleepy insects that were entering them as if they were hotels. Stiff-legged corks squeaked loose from bottlenecks where they'd stood guard since noon. Stiff-legged nags, tiny harness bells jingling, dragged market carts toward the suburbs. At intervals along the boulevards, lamplighters set their gay fires. A wounded tongue licked the shine off cathedral domes. A bat broke loose from a belfry, a loaf broke loose from an oven, six chimes broke loose from a clock. Everywhere a huge, enveloping softness; soft as face powder, soft as petticoats, soft as the snuff in a courtesan's box. 
Now, the clock chimed seven times. Nightfall was almost complete. The softness was suddenly interrupted by harsh hoofbeats, not four hooves, oddly enough, but two, striking a stone bridge—clink! clink!—upon which no beast could be seen to trod; and the peachy, powdery softness was further violated by a release of fumes so fetid it seemed almost evil. Clink! clink! Sparks were "struck from cobblestones. Clink! clink! To the innocent nostrils of spring there was caterwauled a filthy serenade. 
Pan had waited until dark to return home so that he might more stealthily transport the wig stolen from Descartes's redundant funeral. He'd not eaten since early morning, and to the scrape of his hooves (not meant for city streets) and the blast of his stench (meant for no place save the rutting grounds) were added stomach growls, terrible and rude. From grass, he had woven a short rope, which he tied to the wig so that he might pull it along behind him. In the dim light, those pedestrians who saw it scurrying up the street believed it to be blown along by the breeze. Several gave pursuit, only to have it yanked away each time they thought they had it in their grasp. One by one, they gave up. "It stinks, anyway," said the last to quit the chase. And Pan arrived at the incense shop with wig in tow, having painted the gentle April gloaming with shades of Halloween. 
Ceremoniously, Pan presented the wig, frescoed now with grit and offal, to Alobar. Were Alobar bewigged, Pan reasoned, he could hold the white hairs of age at bay for as long as he wished, and no outsider would be the wiser. With 
that pressure removed, maybe Alobar and Kudra would curtail their quarreling, maybe the household would be merry again. 
As it turned out, Pan found his hosts in a quite congenial mood already. When, that afternoon, the latest candidate for a base note had fallen short of expectations, they had sat down over a flagon of wine and negotiated an agreement to dematerialize. 
For a week, they fasted. They meditated for hours each day and bathed repeatedly. They made love between baths but resisted climax, holding the orgasmic cyclone inside themselves, channeling it up their spinal columns to their brains. Then, one afternoon, the green blush of April still upon the city, they closed the shop an hour earlier than usual and climbed the stairs, one of them for the last time. 
The experiment was to be conducted in their small sitting room. After a brief discussion about whether or not they should disrobe, they concurred that nudity might distract Pan, who was to monitor the attempt, and they remained, but for their shoes, fully clothed. Upon the threadbare carpet, a far cry from the rugs that had purred to their buttocks in Constantinople, they sat cross-legged, facing one another. They closed their eyes and . . . 
Just then there was a commotion in the street. Excited voices were being raised outside their shop. Alobar asked Pan to investigate. "I be a god not an errand boy," grumbled the old faun, but he hobbled downstairs nevertheless. 
The ruckus was caused by the monks. For more than a year, ever since Pan moved into the neighborhood, things had not been right at the monastery. The good brothers had become increasingly plagued by erotic dreams. Dreams of a lascivious nature are fairly common among those of whom the church requires celibacy, but the frequency and intensity of the dreams on rue Quelle Blague had the confession booth smoking. Some monks had begun to resist sleep and walked about heavy-lidded and nervous. Others lived for bedtime and during the day appeared drained, weak, disinterested. Rome dispatched an exorcist to uproot their torment, but the sticky demons mocked his incantations: he, himself, 
  
was visited by a succubus of such seductive talent that upon awakening he packed his exorcisory tools and returned to the Vatican. 
The abbot, too, was stricken. At least twice a week he was stiffened by creamy visions; the other nights, he told his confessor, he dreamed "of rabbits caught in snares, of snakes that swallow birds' eggs whole, of trailing vines that threaten to trip me up, of rockslides, ewes in foal, yammering hornets, belching vultures, yellow eyes that peer out from hollow trees, and all manner of disagreeable things such as Satan has strewn about God's perfect world, things such as I have not seen since my boyhood in rural Provence." 
The monks under his authority were subject to these "rural" nightmares as well. If they weren't being tortured by the rub of feminine thighs, they were being nauseated by the drool of he-bears eating their cubs. Late in the evening, a person afoot on rue Quelle Blague might, by the moans and shrieks and saccadic protests, have imagined themselves passing not a monastery but a hospital or a brothel or a combination of the two. 
More and more, the monks came to suspect that the incense shop was the source of their collective possession. 
Despite the aromatic stuffs that were its stock in trade, there was often a gamey odor about the place, "a smell," as'the abbot put it, "of such wild meats as country rogues doth eat." Never had the shop's owners been seen at Mass, there was a quality of physical well-being about them that was nearly supernatural, and the woman—the woman was perversely proportioned and jiggled shamelessly when she walked. Several monks claimed that she, specifically, haunted their cots of a night. 
Still, the two shopkeepers were good customers of the perfumery and were known to cooperate in the acquisition of raw materials. Moreover, the dream epidemic had attacked the monastery but a year before, while the shop had been operating for well over a decade. The superiors urged restraint in placing blame, but accusations were whispered almost daily, and when, with the soft airs and fertile moistures of spring, the dreaming in the cubicles reached a hysterical pitch, small knots of agitated monks began to patrol the block, eager, it seemed, for something demonic to reveal itself. 
It was just such a group that on that fateful afternoon descended on a young man 
who was timidly rattling the latch at the shop's locked door. "What is your business here, boy?" asked one of the monks. "I am making delivery, Father." "Delivery from whom?" 
"From the glassblower. I am his apprentice." This last, the boy said proudly. "And what is in the package?" "Why, glass, Father. A glass bottle." "A bottle of what?" 
"A bottle of nothing." 
"Eh?" 
"The bottle is empty. The woman of this shop commissioned it from my master. Someday I shall blow fine bottles and—" 
"Hush! We shall have a look at this bottle." "But, your holiness—". 
The monk cuffed the lad on the ear. It felt so good he cuffed him again. "We shall see the bottle!" 
Confused, the boy drew away, clutching the package to his silica-caked apron. His ear was turning as red as a whore's lantern. The circle of monks closed around him. "The bottle! The bottle!" they demanded. They forced the package from the frightened boy's grasp and tore it open. A shaft of afternoon sunlight illuminated a bluish container, shaped like a perfume vessel, though three or four times larger. As if focusing, the sun ray narrowed its beam upon a finely wrought figure embossed on the glass. It was the monks' turn to pale. 
For a moment or two, they were speechless, and there was much trembling of skullcap and rosary. " Tis him," one managed to whisper. "Him," repeated another, somewhat louder. "The incense shop and him," said a third. " 'Tis what 
we thought all along. They are allied with Lucifer!" 
The monk who was holding the dreadful object raised it, cocking his arm as if to dash it against the cobblestones, but, lo and behold, the bottle squirmed free from his fingers and floated away, flying under its own power—or so it seemed to the terrified monks—about five feet above the street. Slowly it bobbed down the block, rounded a corner, and disappeared. Only then, crossing themselves so furiously that it was a wonder no wrists were sprained, only then did the monks become fully aware of the vulgar aroma—naturally, they assumed it was sulfur or brimstone—that the bottle left in its wake. 
Entering the shop from the rear (a familiar route for a Greek), Pan fetched the bottle up to the sitting room, where Kudra admired it at length. Normally, Alobar would have been too concerned about the monks to pay much attention to an oversize perfume bottle, but preparations for the dematerialization attempt had so tranquillized him that he brushed aside all thought of events in the street, concentrating, instead, on the pale fruit of the glassblower's rod. "How exactly the fellow copied your design!" "Yes," said Kudra, "isn't it splendid? Pan, it is you on the side. What think you?" 
Pan rarely replied to direct questions, but in this instance he did stampede a flock of little sighs, hairy and wistful: full udders and quick feet running over a cliff. 
"The rendering flatters you, I daresay," joked Alobar to Pan. Then, to Kudra he said, "It is a marvelous container for a potentially marvelous liquid, but, alas, it is all academic now. We still haven't the what-you-call-it, base note, and, besides, if the three of us can rematerialize ourselves in the New World, Pan shall not require a cover for his stink." 
"Oh, I would not be so sure of that. He might find a cover handy even in a wild and distant land. And should he need it not, well, still I want that base note, I want that perfume, I want this bottle filled with its intended contents. I want it for you and me, now, as much as for Pan." 
"But, why?" 
Slowly, Kudra turned the bottle in her hands. Then, she sat it on the floor between them. It was about six inches tall, square-bottomed but rounded at the 
 
shoulders, with a short, flared neck tightly fitted with a glass stopper. There was a ridge down each side of the body, seams left by the wooden mold in which it was formed. The neck, lip, and stopper were seamless, having been formed by hand and added after the blowing. On the bottom of the bottle was a scar not unlike an umbilicus, where an iron pontil rod had held the hot, freshly blown bottle while its neck was being shaped. The cute little pontil scar measured one cubic centimeter, the same, on the average, as the human navel that it resembled. (A Harley-Davidson motorcycle with a lOOOcc engine has room in its chamber for a thousand belly buttons, a piece of information that may or may not interest the Hell's Angels.) The bottle glass was clear but had a bluish tinge because of impurities, and it contained the odd bubble, ripple, and tiny bit of stone. One side of the body was embossed with an oval "frame," within whose boundaries there was an image of none other than Mr. Goat Foot himself, in a jaunty stance, his horns freely displayed, his reeds pressed to his leer, a garland of weeds encircling his bushy brow. 
The bottle was between them, and Kudra spoke over the top of it. "Suppose, just suppose, that we should become separated in our—our journeys into the Other Side. If we were marked by a unique scent, a fragrance all our own, we could always identify each other, even if the light was not clear, even if our vision was clouded or our shapes physically altered; we could find each other no matter if we were lost in the rooms of Death." 
That kind of talk was a bit spooky for Alobar's taste. He suggested that they get on with the experiment while he was still in the mood. So they shut their eyes again and reset their breaths upon a circular track. Kudra's plan was that they should slow themselves down until their "humors" buzzed at a rate below that of the visible world, then merge with the vibrations and broadcast themselves through a crack. Which crack? Why, the crack at the top of the Indian rope trick. Okay. Alobar would give it a whirl. After all, his goal always had been to be complete, and were he restricted to occupancy of this one world, as round and fully packed as it might be, he supposed he could not claim completion. He was as nervous as a praying mantis at an atheists' picnic, but he bore down gently, intensifying his concentration, letting go of his attachment to gravity, applying the brakes to his bodily functions. Just before he abandoned himself to the process, however, he heard Kudra whisper, "The bottle must be filled." 

From corner to corner, silence webbed the room. Gradually, there commenced a ringing in Alobar's ears. The sound was produced, no doubt, by his central nervous system, though he imagined it the ringing of the spheres. Stars, in fact, had begun to colonize the darkness behind his lids. At first they were as faint and icy as the pimples on an albino's backside, but they grew in brilliance and size until a sewing basket of flaming buttons spilled on his head, and the Great Bear raked him with her sidereal paws. 
Motionless, he sat inside himself as if in a planetarium. Neither a twitch nor a flicker, a pulse nor a discernible breath marred his smooth facade. His heart slowed until it seemed to have frozen in its burrow. His lungs were as immobile as sponges. The wheel rolled to a stop, and bubbles of oxygen slid off of it to skitter upon the surface of his stagnant blood like waterbugs attending to some dizzy business. He tingled, he sparked, and he rang. He felt light and loose and large. The more static his functions became, the more he seemed to expand, as if he had entered a state where there was progress without duration, advance without movement. 
He was becoming unstuck, he was sure of that—his bones were no longer wrapped in flesh but in clouds of dust, in hummingbirds, dragonflies, and luminous moths—but so perfect was his equilibrium that he felt no fear. He was vast, he was many, he was dynamic, he was eternal. 
Then, suddenly, he was falling, not downward but outward, beyond the horizon —as if the earth had an edge after all. And with that thought, his life started to unreel before him. He saw himself as a babe, gnawing at the nipple of his great golden mother; as a child, rolling in pine needles; as a youth, swimming rivers. He witnessed himself in battle after battle, smoke winding 'round his helmet, his right sleeve stiff with gore. He occupied the throne, skinned a fox, drained a mead goblet, spread the yellow short-hairs of Alma, Ruba, and Frol. There, over the watchtower, was the winter moon in its ermine snood; here, in the harem mirror, was his good old beard, unsullied by silver; yonder was Noog sawing a chicken in half; here stood Wren, advice forming in her mouth like spittle; and— oh joy!—up bounded the huge hound, Mik, jowls a-drool and tail a-wag. Alobar embraced the dog and buried his face in its coat, only to be knocked back by an overpowering odor. 
Upon first contact, the smell was acrid and offensive, but by the second or third whiff it was acceptable enough, and by the fourth or fifth, downright agreeable. A shock of olfactory recognition reverberated in Alobar, and he said to himself — his light, loose, large, and falling self—"Ah, 'tis late in summer and the dogs have been in the crops." 
The pageantry of his life continued to flash by, but he clung to the brief encounter with Mik, galvanized, somehow, by the familiar smell. And then it hit him. 'That is it!" he cried. "That is it!" So deep was he in "his" time, so removed from exterior time, that he made no sound in the room, but he cried "Methinks I have found it!" with force enough that the breath wheel was jarred into motion again, a wild thump rattled his heart, and all at once his trajectory reversed itself and he came flying back, shedding stars like dandruff, gaining weight, contracting, shrinking, until he tumbled back over the edge into the shallow bowl of our reality, his plasma sluggish in the pump, his eyes pasted shut with some atomic glue, but voice finally audible in the little sitting room: "Kudra! I have got it." 
A beet, by and large, has little odor; its leaves, stalk, and famous red root are, to the nose, equally, relatively bland. Around August, however, when the plants go to seed, a pungent and singular aroma rises from them, like a gaseous wrench that gives the surrounding atmosphere a sharp turn to the left, twisting it into strange new configurations. When dogs run through August beet fields, the pollen dusts their coats, and they return to their masters so strongly scented that no scour brush, however vigorously wielded, will leave them fit to sleep in the house. As Alobar recalled, only time—days of it—would relieve the dogs of their odd olfactory burden, "odd" because once the nose was past the initial shock of it, it was not unpleasant; yet, unless substantially diluted, its pleasure was difficult to endure. 
If the waft that streams from a freshly opened hive is intimate to the point of embarrassment (ask any sensitive beekeeper), so it is with beet pollen. There is something personal about it, and something primeval. If there is a comparable odor, it is, indeed, the moldy inner sanctum of some fermenting, bursting hive; but beet pollen is honey squared, royal jelly cubed, nectar raised to the nth power; the intensified secretions of the Earth's apiarian gland, reeking of ancient bridal chambers and intimacies half as old as time. 
 
However, on Nature's cluttered dressing table, there is no scent to truly match it, not hashish, -not ambergris, not decaying honey itself. Beet pollen, in its fascinating ambivalence, is the aroma of paradox, of yang and yin commingled, of life and 
death combined in vegetable absolute. And Alobar intuited that it was the missing link in the evolution of the perfect perfume. "Beet is our base note," he said. "Why did I not think of it before?" 
Maybe he was right. Beet pollen had the muscle, the stamina, the tenacity to both establish the jasmine and to stand up to its detractors. Like that rarity, the wise husband, it was strong enough to possess its mate, secure enough to allow her her freedom. If Pan's musk was the dark and convulsive essence of animal behavior, then beet's musk was its floral counterbalance, the olfactory interface where the fuck of beast and the pollenization of plant became roughly equivalent. "Kudra, methinks I have found it! 
"Kudra. "Kudra?" 
With effort, Alobar forced his lids apart. The light was piercing, but the pain passed quickly. He squinted, striving to focus. Slowly, the walls came into relief and, in turn, the fireplace, curtains, furniture, and empty bottle at his stockinged feet. Kudra, alas, was not to be seen. He blinked furiously and rubbed his eyes with his fists. His vision was back to normal. That wasn't the problem. The sun was setting, but the room was still adequately lit. That wasn't the problem. Kudra was gone. 
Life is too small a container for certain individuals. Some of them, such as Alobar, huff and puff and try to expand the container. Others, such as Kudra, seek to pry the lid off and hop out. 
"Both of thee wert going," said Pan from his post in the corner. "Thou stopped and came back. She went." 
Naturally, Alobar was tempted to restart the experiment, to try to join her— wherever she might be. Upon reflection, however, he submitted to his truer 
 
nature and elected to wait for her return. 
As darkness fell, he lit candle after candle in the sitting room, indifferent to what the monks might think of the concentrated brilliance. Should any tiny part of her wink on, he didn't want to miss it. When, by midnight, not so much as a chin dimple had shown up, he experienced alternate states of panic and relief; panic that her disappearance might be permanent, relief that he had not disappeared. 
At dawn, he blew out the candles, which had come to resemble the fingers of careless mill workers, and continued the vigil by sunlight. Above Pan's cataractous snoring, he could hear carts creaking to market, birds blowing the bugs out of their pipes, and monks marching to and fro in front of the shop, but he couldn't hear a peep from the Other Side. There was simply nothing left of Kudra but a pair of empty shoes. In some kind of desperate attempt to get her attention, he set fire to the left shoe and smoked it. 
He had just blown a ring about the size of her left breast when—how embarrassing!—the gendarmes arrived. They arrested Alobar, charging him with heresy, blasphemy, satanism, and witchcraft, and confiscated the new perfume bottle as evidence. 
Breaking into the Bastille was as easy as falling off a ewe for the invisible Pan. Less than twenty-four hours after the arrest, before the whips and lashes had gotten limber, Pan had liberated Alobar, and the bottle as well, leaving nothing in their place but an awful smell. 
Immediately, they made their way to the incense shop. It was boarded up, and a heavy wooden cross was propped against the front door. Prying boards loose from a rear window, they hurried upstairs. The sitting room was just as they had left it. Kudra's right shoe lay upturned on the thin carpet, like a boat washed up on a desolate shore. 
It was barely four in the morning, but already candles were exercising their little flames, left, right, flicker, sputter, left, right, in the monastery halls across the street. Alobar knew he must get out of there, but first he bundled up as much fragrance equipment as he could carry, and left a note in Kudra's shoe telling her to look for him in the beet fields of Bohemia. 
 

To Alobar's mind, there were several possible reasons why Kudra hadn't rematerialized. To wit: 
(1) Once she had fallen over the edge (Alobar was assuming that her experience paralleled his own), she had just kept falling, growing lighter, looser, and larger until she became nothing—or everything—and was, therefore, in a rather grandiose way, "dead," or, at least, irretrievable. 
(2) In the world of the nonliving, she had been reunited with her parents, with Navin the Ropemaker, and with her abandoned children, about whom she felt, Alobar knew, continued remorse. (Alobar secretly blamed himself—no seventeenth-century male would publicly admit to such a shortcoming—for Kudra's failure to conceive in their recent efforts, but, of course, the fault lay with the pennyroyal that she had ingested for over seven hundred years and which had left a contraceptive residue that would bash sperm in the head for a long time to come.) In that case, she would choose not to rematerialize for a while, if ever. 
(3) She had landed safely on the Other Side and was searching there for him. Since she had no way of knowing that his dematerialization had been aborted, perhaps she feared that he was lost. 
(4) She had landed on the Other Side and become lost there, herself. Maybe she longed to come back but couldn't find her way. 
(5) Since their practical objective in learning to dematerialize was to transport themselves across the Atlantic, it could be that Kudra had crossed directly and was waiting for Pan and him to join her in the New World. 
In the event that it was reason number one that detained her, there was nothing Alobar could do but grieve. If it was number two, he could only carry a torch, as they say, and hope that his love would eventually draw her back to him. To deal with possibility three or four might or might not require him to dematerialize, but, in either case, he instinctively felt that their long-sought perfume would be the key to their finding one another again. For that matter, if it was number five 
 
that was correct, if she had taken advantage of a free and easy passage to the New World and was counting on Pan and him following her, the perfume would also be necessary, both as a mask for goat gas and as a signal in case their seeing one another directly was prevented by natural or supernatural obstructions. 
Well, at least he could provide the perfume now. Or could he? That question— and a sack of beakers, tubes, crucibles, industrial-strength candles, citron, jasmine oil, and a five-ounce bottle with Pan on its side1—weighed him down on the long trek to Bohemia. 
The beet harvest was right on schedule. Toward the tail of July, peasants were in the fields from morning until night, ripping whiskered fetuses from the planetary mud. A steady parade of oxcarts wound toward the villages, bearing baskets of smokeless coals and sacks of idol eyes. Concealed in a hillside thicket, Alobar kept one eye on the harvest, one on the road to the west, down which he expected at any moment to see an hashish-colored woman jiggling and swaying: jumping beans in aspic, a satin ship rolling in a tide of licorice sauce. 
The harvest petered out, the woman never appeared, but the Bohemian farmers, as they had done since Alobar could remember, left a few acres of beets undug so that they might complete their cycle and provide the seed for next year's crop. There was a patch of seed-beets here, a patch there, often miles apart. Alobar mapped the countryside, X-ing the fields where the treasure lay. He needn't have bothered. By mid-August, his nose could have led him blindfolded to the places where the pollen was congregating. 
In the dark of night, Alobar and Pan collected the viscous powder from the plant tops, filling beakers that they stashed in a particularly dense thicket. Twigs and branches jabbed at their eyes, briers tore Pan's flesh and Alobar's clothing, but each dawn they kicked and shoved their way into the coppice, where they added another couple of beakers to the stash and lay down to sleep in a chaos of sweating vines, mucous leaves, and maggoty logs. Mistletoe dripped an unsavory liquid on them, a living confetti of spiders and earwigs dotted them from head to heel, curds of mushroom and scrambles of lichen soiled them to the bone, but Pan slept as if he were to that foul manor born, and Alobar was too desperate to care. His fitful dreams were all of Kudra, and when he lay awake in the rot and tangle, he sniffed at the contrasting clouds of musk that billowed 
 
from the god and the beakers of beet pollen, noting with immense satisfaction that they nearly cancelled one another out. 
After a dozen containers had been filled, they hiked into the high hills, where smoke would not be noticed, and, while Pan lay on the humus, noodling his pipes (Alobar had fetched them in his sack, and they put the local fauna into a tizzy), Alobar constructed a crude laboratory. He boiled down the beet pollen into an extract, gray, gooey, and possessed of a basso profondo that could have brought the rafters down in the grand opera of" smell. 
When all the extract had been made, Alobar shook the wood lice out of his britches, washed his face in a creek, and set out for a large town on the Russian border, where he knew a vodka master to reside. Pan was left behind to guard their equipment. Without the feeble god to slow him, Alobar reached the town in a week. There, he approached the vodka maker, who, in return for the last of Alobar's French gold pieces, agreed to distill the beet pollen extract, an operation that, to Alobar's displeasure, consumed the better part of a month. 
The job at last complete, Alobar tied a gallon jug of distil late to each end of a stout pole, rested the pole across both shoulders, and left the town at a trot. Were it not for the preciousness and weight of his cargo, he might have left at a gallop. He was anxious about Kudra, who could have returned in his absence, anxious about Pan, who could have strayed. In as much as his health would permit, Pan had cooperated in the venture to disguise his malodor and transport him to the New World, but he hardly could be rated enthusiastic. He was, in fact, so nonverbal, so distant, distracted, solitary, and, even in his invisibility, especially in his invisibility, charged with psychic shock, that nothing he might have done would really have surprised Alobar, who had little choice but to withhold trust. Stopping neither to eat nor sleep, his brain hot with imagined disasters, the man who once was a king in this land flapped through the countryside in his filthy rags, his boots (ailing away from his feet, his latest beard flying in the wind like a nauseated Chinaman losing his bird's nest soup. 
Their camp proved blessedly intact, Pan present and accounted for, molesting a confused doe that he had attracted by his piping. As the poor deer sprang into the bushes, Alobar lifted the pole from his raw shoulders. "Tis done," he said, and lay down in the lean-to, falling immediately into a wife-infested slumber. 
 
Twelve hours later, he awoke and set at "once to mixing the beet pollen distillate with jasmine oil and citron essence, in varying proportions. After five days of experimenting, he hit upon what seemed the ideal mixture: one part beet to twenty parts jasmine to two parts citron, a ratio that inspired him to name the scent K23. The K was for Kudra. 
Lake a lobster with a pearl in its claw, the beet held the jasmine firmly without crushing or obscuring it. Beet lifted jasmine, the way a bullnecked partner lifts a ballerina, and the pair came on stage on citron's fluty cue. As if jasmine were a collection of beautiful paintings, beet hung it in the galleries of the nose, insured it against fire or theft, threw a party to celebrate it. Citron mailed the invitations. 
If Alobar could trust his nose, K23 stopped Pan in his tracks. It seemed to throw a mantle—gossamer in places, heavily embroidered in others—over his funk, and however long and hard the goat musk might squirm beneath that cloak, it could not wriggle free. "I wonder if I am only imagining that it is so effective?" worried Alobar. "Perhaps it is wishful smelling." There was nothing to do but submit it to objective testing. 
Into a sack, Alobar packed a gallon jug of K23, what remained of the beet pollen distillate (the jasmine and citron were used up), the empty bottle that Kudra had designed, some roasted beets to munch on on the road, and his companion's innocent-looking reeds. Then, at Pan's pace—out there in the back country the peasants still secretly honored him, a fact that put a tad of pep in his step—they set off in the direction of France. In every village through which they passed, Pan—freshly sprinkled with K23—walked ahead, Alobar following at a distance of nine or ten yards. Directed by Alobar, Pan endeavored to brush as closely as possible to people in the street. From Bohemia to Paris, the results were invariably the same. 
As the invisible Pan walked by, people's eyebrows would raise, their noses would tilt, and they would begin to turn toward the source of the scent, looks of expectation or ill-concealed delight forming on their faces. Halfway into the turn, however, that expression would be abruptly dislodged by a twitch of embarrassment, and, reddening slightly, the person would turn away, as if to look directly at the origin of such a fragrance might violate an intimacy sacred even to an unrefined yokel. Bemused smiles involuntarily parting their lips, they would continue on their way for a few yards, when, at a safe distance and no longer able to resist, they would stop and slowly look back, smiling all the while, 
only to find that the emanator of the aroma had—so they believed—turned a corner or disappeared through a doorway. Off they would go then, not really disappointed, some fantasy or other obviously drawing a grass blade lightly along the genitals of their minds. 
Now Alobar was hardly expert, but he realized that he had concocted a unique and genuinely amazing perfume, a fragrance whose possibilities extended far beyond its worth— praise the morning star for that worth!—as a cover-up for the Horned One's fetid ooze.. Kudra had predicted it, had she not? She had said, at least, that she wished the perfume for Alobar and her as much as for Pan. 
On the outskirts of Paris, where they rested beneath a stone bridge, waiting for darkness before daring to enter the city, Alobar filled the bluish bottle to the brim with K23. He put its stopper in. He pressed it to his tear-wet cheeks. 
It was late September, there were tambourines of frost in the air. Alobar and Pan crossed the great city, their breath always one step ahead of them. Man's breath and god's breath looked identical, congealed in the urban night. Their footsteps, on the other hand, were distinctly different—the bum flap of Alobar's boots, the blacksmith chisel of Pan's hooves— but they led to the same destination over the rigid effervescence of cobblestones. 
The incense shop was just as they had left it, boarded up and blocked by a crude wooden cross. Apparently the monks were giving it a wide berth. Had Alobar stopped off at the neighboring brewery/perfumery, he would have caught the abbot discussing the sale of the business to an enterprising fragrance broker named Guy LeFever. At that very moment, LeFever was inquiring about the possibility of locating the owner of the incense shop and purchasing it as well, for he had heard that its inventory was quite valuable and in disuse, but the abbot, who was sleeping better those nights and taking no chances, wrung his lily hands and cried, "No, no, do not pursue it." 
As deftly as possible, Alobar pried open a rear window. He and Pan crawled in. Alobar's heart was beating more loudly than Pan's hoofbeats as they climbed the stairs. The door to the sitting room was opened with a creak. Alobar did not recall that it had ever creaked before. 
 
It seems there should have been a harvest moon that night, but not a cuff link of moonlight was in evidence. Perhaps the moon was spending the evening at Versailles. In any case, Alobar didn't really require a moon to see that nothing in the room had changed. The pale reach of a streetlamp was sufficient to illuminate the sad tableau: his note, the single shoe, the balls of dust. 
He avoided going inside, but, rather, leaned across the threshold just far enough to set down the bottle of K23, having first removed its stopper. He shut the door briskly, as if the breeze from the door might speed a waft of perfume toward the Other Side. 
Upon the bed where he, a latecomer to kissing, had kissed so much of her, he lay the night, weeping, dozing, waking to weep once more. Throughout the morning he lay there, a pillow, which he imagined to bear some scent of her ebony hair, pasted to his face. It was past noon when he finally released himself from the twist of marriage-stained sheets. Lint in his beard, burrs of salt in the corners of his eyes, he padded barefoot to the sitting room to fetch the bottle. Pan was up and would be needing a fix. 
As bait, K23 had failed—for the time being, at any rate. Alobar had heard no sound from the sitting room during the night, and now, creaking open the door, he saw that his note still lay there, beneath the forlorn shoe. But wait! Hadn't he tucked the note inside the shoe?! And hadn't the shoe been placed in the very center of the carpet, whereas it now lay somewhat off to the right, closer to the fireplace!?! 
Shaking like a wedding announcement in a misogamist's fist, Alobar examined the shoe, unfolded and reread the note. He turned them over and over. He even sniffed them. There were no marks, no odors, nothing unusual in any way. Yet they had been moved, he was positive of that! The question was, had they been moved during the night—in which case, the perfume was a lure, after all—or sometime during the preceding five months? The light had been so dim, his emotions so swollen on the previous evening that he easily could have overlooked such a slight, though significant, displacement. 
Unable to learn anything from the slipper or paper, he scrutinized the room itself, patrolling the carpet, inch by dusty inch. Nothing. The walls, too, were a tabula rasa. When his gaze settled on the fireplace, however, his spine was straightened by a fulminous jolt. On the mantelpiece, next to Kudra's beloved 
silver teapot, a word had been written in the dust! 
Yes, someone, using a fingertip as implement, had plowed a grafitto on the surface of the marble, where the dust lay thick as fur. The script, while instantly familiar, was not Kudra's style, however, nor was the word in her single written language. When Kudra had finally become literate, it was French that she learned to read and write. The word on the mantelpiece was from the Slavo- Nordic tongue that his clan had used to speak of battles, bear hunts, beet harvests, and broken mirrors, and the handwriting was that of the only woman in his kingdom with the ability to write that language: Wren. 
For a long time, Alobar just stood there, grasping the mantel ledge for support. So shocked was he by the implications of language and penmanship that he didn't even consider content. When at last he turned his attention to it, his bafflement only increased. The word was a transitive verb, an exclamation, a command, of which an exact English translation is impossible. The closest equivalent probably would be the phrase: 
Lighten up! 
Lighten up, indeed. Against his better judgment and to Pan's chagrin, Alobar remained in the flat for a week, subsisting oh crusts of stale bread and flakes of moldy cheese. Each night he placed the open bottle of K23 in the sitting room, each morning he rushed in and searched for messages in the dust. There were none. That is, there was but one, the one and only: Erleichda. "Lighten up!" 
Alobar watched the last grain of green cheese work its way down Pan's invisible gullet while some morbid hymn about the gore of Christ drifted over from across the street. He chewed a mouthful of dried blossoms from the shop's supply. They tasted like Grendel's underpants. He spat them out, wiped his beard with his sleeve, and asked, "What shall we cook for dinner? The drapes?" Had Guy LeFever, who was next door closing his deal with the abbot, overheard him, the businessman might have snapped, "Not drapes, you idiot, draperies. Drape is a verb." LeFever did not overhear him, but Alobar knew that it was merely a matter of time before one of the monks did hear him, or spot him through a window (the upper ones were not boarded), a prospect that caused his empty stomach to rattle its chains. 
He was sitting there in the universal slouch of hopelessness, the old droop of 
despair, when he felt the pressure of Pan's hand on his arm. The god had never touched him before, and Alobar had to confess that his first reaction was that he must defend himself against intended buggery. Pan simply squeezed him, however, and remarked, "Death hath more than one way to defeat a man, it seems. Death bests thee even while thou liveth." Then he walked away, his hooves beating a slow rat-a-tat on the floorboards, pausing to call over his presumed shoulder, "Puny homer." 
That must have done it. Alobar slumped there for another quarter-hour, then rose, bathed, shaved off his tear-encrusted beard, donned his finest clothes, polished his spare boots, pulled on and powdered the frazzled wig that Pan had dragged home from Descartes's funeral, and beckoning to the god, who may or may not have been smiling, slipped recklessly out of the shop while the sun's seal was still affixed to the scroll of the horizon. 
Packing the perfume, beet distillate, and little else, the pair made its way to Marseilles, where the last ship of the season was preparing .to sail for New France. 
For more than a decade, the French had dominated the Great Lakes region of what would eventually be called North America, but unlike the English and Spanish, the French tended to view the New World in terms of its spoils—furs, fish, Christian converts, and a possible westward route to the Indies—rather than as a place to build homes, towns, and a new life. Disease, attacks from hostile Iroquois, and a major earthquake in Quebec in 1663 had brought its fur-trading company to the brink of ruin and set weary settlers to crying "Back to France!" before Louis XIV stopped waltzing long enough to rectify matters. Rumors of a mighty and mysterious river flowing southward from the Great Lakes, perhaps as far as the Pacific, had reached King Louis, and, murmuring "Mississippi, Mississippi", into his scented hankie, he raised New France to the status of a royal province, secured it with a regiment of highly trained soldiers, and appointed a capable executive to oversee its internal affairs. Henceforth, Louis decreed, qualified settlers (those with skills) would take precedence over missionaries and trappers on the ships to Montreal. 
When Alobar approached the captain of the Mississippi Poodle, he found that it had space for several more single male passengers—most families were waiting for spring before emigrating, not wishing to begin colonial life at the onset of a harsh northern winter—and were he deemed fit, he could not only travel free of 
charge, he would be paid a small bonus for his commitment. Alobar contended that he was an aristocrat who'd recently lost his fortune, and since he had a gentlemanly manner, and since there was another fellow aboard in an identical situation ("Sieur de La Salle by name, is he a friend of yours?") the captain believed him. 
There was some worry about Alobar's age, however. "Just ho\v old are you, sir?" inquired the chief immigration officer. Alobar didn't know what to say. He had no idea anymore what age he looked to be, and God knows he couldn't tell the truth. He stammered a bit, finally blurting out, "Forty-six," a figure arrived at by doubling K23. "A hale and hardy forty-six, accustomed to leading men." 
Up the gangplank he went, aromatic liquids gurgling in his sack, suppressed laughter gurgling in his throat. Pan followed. 
The Mississippi Poodle slid across the Mediterranean as slickly as an asparagus spear gliding through a serving of hollandaise sauce, but once past Gibraltar and into the open Atlantic, she ran headlong into a mass of cold air and choppy water. With each dark day, the waves grew more pugilistic. Passengers could imagine her hull turning blue from the chilling and the pounding. 
It was routine sailing for that time of year, of course, and the seamen not only took it in stride, they seemed as content a crew as the captain had ever commanded. There was a curious sweet aroma aboard that, while it could neither be identified nor pinpointed, lifted everyone's spirits in a shy, 
private way, fostering the secret hope that some wonderful encounter waited just below deck (if one was above) or on deck (if one was below). Like habitual snuff users, the men sniffed as they went about their work. "This tub smells like a Bombay whore," grumbled one old salt, but the younger men, who'd never seen Bombay, only grinned and, being sailors, lost little sleep over the pornographic nightmares that with increasing frequency invaded their hammocks. Homosexual impulses, which normally didn't surface until the men had been parted from their wives for several months, began to flicker a few days past Gibraltar, more to the amusement than disturbance of those so visited. 
Alobar spent much of the voyage seated alone behind the bowsprit, enjoying the 
 
energy of the waves, refreshed by the salty sprays that needled him. For him, the blustery days provided calm introspection, a time for putting his long, strange life into some sort of perspective. 
"Pan is right," he thought. "Death can ruin a man's life even though he go on breathing." The sea hissed at him, but he didn't flinch. "If Kudra is dead, dead as all the others who have died, then I must refrain from driving myself mad by wishing her alive. I do not know why the dead do not come back to life. Perhaps death is so wonderful, in ways we cannot comprehend, that they prefer it over and above their friends and loved ones, although I am inclined to doubt that be the case. If Kudra is dead like all the others, then it does me well to curtail my grief, lest my life become a deathly imitation through depression and sorrow." He wiped a piece of foam from his eye and, without malice, flicked it back into the waves. 
"Ah, but suppose she is dead in the manner of the Bandaloop, able to pass back and forth freely between This Side and the Other Side. Although six months have gone, that still is a reasonable speculation due to her unusual abilities and to the very significant fact that she did not leave behind a body to molder in the sod: she took it with her. Hopeful I am, yet to ride that hope each day from dawn to sleep the way this vessel rides the bucking ocean is also a kind of death. Certainly I sail to New France, with my lure of K23, intent upon meeting her there, but I should be prepared to thrive even if she foils to appear." 
On every side of him, the cold viridian waters stretched as far as he could see, and for every wave that reared and whinnied upon those waters, there was a question to rear and whinny in his mind. Did the Bandaloop really come and go as they pleased, with no regard to normal distinctions between "life" and "death"? Where was the proof? Who were the Bandaloop? Where were they now? Was Kudra with them? A swell of jealousy pitched him, as if he were a ship upon an autumn sea. 
He had placed a lot of emphasis on the perfume, but what if its scent could never reach Kudra? Or, if it could, what if she was powerless to react, or, worse, what if perfume no longer mattered to her? 
And, yes, what was the connection, if any, linking Kudra and Wren? Now there was a mystery. If Wren had written in the dust of the sitting room, wouldn't that mean that she, too, was alive behind that curtain that separates us from the Other 
Side? And since Wren knew nothing about dematerialization, since she regarded the notion of immortality as unnatural and vain, wouldn't her message on the mantelpiece mean that a person need not harbor immortalist ambitions in order to survive after death? Did the so-called Bandaloop practices merely provide a different brand of life—longer, healthier, more flexible—and have little or nothing to do with death per se? Suppose Kudra, not Wren, had written that word ("Erleichda!") employing Wren's language and handwriting, which she had somehow appropriated in the afterworld? Did a man's wives all blend into a single entity after their deaths? Would he blend with Navin the Ropemaker if and when he died? Was it wife soup and husband soup on the Other Side? Or was it simply soup? 
At that moment, La Salle, the penniless young nobleman, approached the bow, intending to engage Alobar in genteel conversation, but Alobar's gaze was sweeping the Atlantic, and so absorbed was he in trying to imagine a soup as vast as that ocean that he heard not a word of the fellow's greeting. Miffed, La Salle walked away, his stride, despite the heaving 
of the deck, revealing the stubborn pride that a few years later would prevent him from admitting that he was lost in Texas when he was supposed to be exploring Louisiana (his frustrated men finally assassinated him, depriving him of the opportunity to found New Orleans, America's perfumed metropolis). 
Alobar continued to survey the sea. Was that wave over there Kudra and this one Wren? Or was there a drop of Kudra, a drop of Wren in each and every wave that rose and fell? Wren. He had loved Kudra so long and so well that he'd almost forgotten how he'd once loved Wren. It had been Wren who comforted him when that first white hair slithered like a viper into his happy garden, Wren who had aided and abetted his subsequent subterfuge even though she'd been shocked by his crazy notions of personal identity and survival, Wren who had plucked him from the burial mound—and that very night spread her legs for his successor. Ah, women: the mystery of them sometimes seemed greater than the mystery of death. 
One thing was certain, had it not been for Wren he wouldn't be here, seven hundred—yes, seven hundred!—years later, embarked upon the strangest adventure of his strange life. And now, after all that time, Wren had contacted him. To tell him what? Lighten up! 
Very well. He'd lighten up. As a matter of fact, he felt as light as the bubbly froth that flew from the lips of the waves. Whatever else his long, unprecedented life might have been, it had been fun. Fun! If others should find that appraisal shallow, frivolous, so be it. To him, it seemed now to largely have been some form of play. And he vowed that in the future he would strive to keep that sense of play more in mind, for he'd grown convinced that play—more than piety, more than charity or vigilance—was what allowed human beings to transcend evil. 
Quite damp now from the spray, Alobar took no step to go below. He had made one promise in the teeth of the sea, and he would stay to make another. He thought that he would persist in his devotion to his individual consciousness. Perhaps it was selfish. Perhaps someday, despite his efforts, he would end up in the one big soup, anyhow. Yet, looking at his life and the life of the world from the vantage of seven continuous and well-traveled centuries, he would say this to anyone with ears brave enough to hear it: the spirit of one individual can supersede and dismiss the entire clockworks of history. 
"Our individuality is all, all, that we have. There are those who barter it for security, those who repress it for what they believe is the betterment of the whole society, but blessed in the twinkle of the morning star is the one who nurtures it and rides it, in grace and love and wit, from peculiar station to peculiar station along life's bittersweet route." 
If there was any crack in his conviction, a seam opened, perhaps, by remembered teachings of the Buddhists at Samye, it closed when he turned his face from the stiff salt air and caught a whiff of K23. 
Alobar was benefiting from the voyage, but for Pan it was a sea horse of a different color. It was, in fact, the most terrible experience of his life. 
The old god had endured severe setbacks in the past: the disdain of Apollo and his snooty followers, the rise of cities, the hostility of the philosophers—from Aristotle to Descartes— with their smug contentions that man was reasonable and nature defective, and, most damaging of all, the concentrated efforts of the Christian church to discredit his authority by identifying him as Satan. The arrogant attacks, the dirty tricks, the indifference had rendered him weak and invisible, and might have destroyed him altogether had not an unreasonable affection for him persisted in isolated places: hidden valleys and distant 
mountain huts; and in the hearts of heretics, lusty women, madmen, and poets. 
Recently, he'd been yanked from his indigenous crags and set down in an urban environment, a move that some might have thought would apply the coup de grace. Indeed, it was hard on him, but one cannot truly escape nature by paving streets and erecting buildings, and Pan found in Paris enough grass and trees in its parks and vacant lots, enough animal compulsions in the souls of its citizens, to sustain him. A ship, however, was a different matter. 
Never had he felt so confined. The crowded hold, the unrelieved ocean. He was totally out of his realm, totally in weird Poseidon's. It was foreign and insubstantial. Were he free to play his pipes, he might set fish to jumping, might roust a mermaid from the deep (if mermaids had not died out like the nymphs). But he dare not pipe. He dare not move about or cause mischief. Even if he were free to do so, he was in no condition. He was seasick. 
If that were only the worst of it. ... The idea of an invisible leaning over a rail, broadcasting green bile from a stomach nobody could see, is almost comic. Alas, something more insidious than the rocking ship was sickening Pan. He was becoming emotionally ill, as well. And the cause was the perfume. 
Pan had hit upon the perfect disguise, all right. He no longer knew who he was. The perfume separated him from him, dismantled his persona. Invisibility itself was alienating. When he drank from a spring, only waterbugs looked back at him, and whose body was that that itched, whose hand that did the scratching? In his invisibility he had become increasingly attached to his odor, occupying it as though it were a shell, a second body, familiar and orienting, home foul home. From the start, the various perfumes had had a confusing effect on him, but his native aroma made short work of them, generally, and it was seldom very long before he was cheerfully, securely stinking again like an old furnace stoked with gonads. K23 was a different matter. It obscured his house of smell the way a mist would sometimes erase his favorite crag; a cloud without pockets, drifting in the direction of the Void. 
Ironically, he rather liked the new perfume. The jasmine blew like a soft wind from Egypt across the scruffy pastures of his mind, the beet thumped a dance drum with scrotum-tightening rhythms. Together, they dulled the ache that had pierced his breast since birth. But could it be that that ancient sadness was as necessary to his identity as his odor? 
On dry land, he had managed to keep some bearings. The rocks and leaves had seen to that. At sea, however, he was lost. He retched and did. not recognize who was retching. Twice a day, Alobar came to anoint him, sniffing him out at whatever rail he clung to or in whatever rope bin he lay groaning. Pan realized that each application of the scent only made him foggier, but, like a drug addict, he was already too foggy to resist further fogginess. 
As the Mississippi Poodle approached New France, smelling sweeter by far than any ship ever had after a transatlantic crossing, its crew whistling as it worked, its mates hiding behind some barrels in tender embrace, Alobar on the bow facing the future with a silly grin, Pan was curled in pukey delirium close to dying. 
What caused him to suddenly leap to his wobbly hooves? What burst of madness fired his motor? Two things, probably. A gull, the first they'd seen in weeks, swooped low over the mastpole, shrieking loudly. At that very instant, one of the few women aboard walked by the corner where Pan lay. She happened to be menstruating. Perhaps the smell of blood, dark and chthonian, at the precise moment that the bird screamed, awakened something deep and intrinsic in what remained of Pan's consciousness. Perhaps it would have spoken to something inside us, as well, were our barriers down, and perhaps we had just as soon not probe that primal pie. In any event, the god sprang up, possessed. Stumbling and reeling, he rushed through the bulkhead toward Alobar's hammock. 
Pan snatched up Alobar's sack, threw it over his shoulder, and, not caring how the sight of a levitating bag might frighten the passengers, climbed the ladder to topside. Heading directly to the rail, over which he'd spewed every morsel Alobar had fed him since Gibraltar, he opened the sack and hurled the jug, the one and only jug, of K23 into the ocean. 
Then, as Alobar looked on in horror, Pan pulled out the Dottle. He held it aloft for a second or two, as if admiring (or puzzling over) the image of himself piping clownishly, mockingly, sensually, powerfully, in some forgotten time. A sunbeam struck the bluish glass and caromed off the weedy brow of the figure embossed there, the creature that seemed to be laughing, even as it piped a poignant tune; laughing at the puny endeavors of man. A second sunbeam bounced off its stopper. Then it fell. 
Whereas the heavy jug had plummeted without hesitation to the bottom, Kudra's 
bottle, barely half full of perfume, bobbed to the surface. And stayed there. Clinging like lint to the blue serge shoulder of the sea. 
Away it bobbed, swiftly out of range of net or hook, floating southward on the current, sparkling, scenting, bumping the occasional whisker or fin, destined to eventually loop the Floridian peninsula, where it would languish in waters well suited to its contents—until the night when hurricane tides would beach it. And bury it. In the Mississippi mud. 
SEATTLE 
"ORDER I N ! Hi, Ricki. I'd like . . ." 
"Nine Fantasy Islands, six steel-belted radials, one Aztec ceremony with obsidian swizzle stick, twelve makes-you-invincibles, and an emergency landing with a cherry." 
"Whoa! You're in a good mood tonight." 
Ricki leaned across the mahogany, resting her arms on the chrome rails that separated the waitress station from the rest, of the bar. It was a fine, old bar, long and curved like a tusk and so solid that the entire membership of the Fraternal Order of Belligerent Drunks of America could not make it budge. Ricki's bare arms, damp and rather hairy, seemed frail against the monolithic bar, but her smile more than held its own. 
"Good mood? Honey, my antlers are in the treetops. And yours are gonna be there, too, when you hear the news." 
Priscilla set down her tray. "What news?" she asked. 
"Two pieces of news, actually. The first is that the Daughters of the Daily Special are meeting Monday. And I have it on good authority they're gonna approve your grant." 
The brickload of fatigue that Priscilla was carrying suddenly turned into brick 
souffle, "You're kidding." "Nope." Hummingbird souffle. Cobweb souffle. "How much? Do you know?" "Twenty-five hundred is the figure I've heard." 
Nitrous oxide souffle. "No lie?!" Priscilla didn't require a pocket calculator to determine that twenty-five hundred dollars would purchase three ounces of prime jasmine oil and leave enough to support her for a couple of months while she devoted all her time to identifying, and perhaps acquiring, that enigmatic base note. It would also mean that she wouldn't have to rely on her stepmother for assistance. "God Almighty, that's wonderful!" 
"I thought you'd be pleased. Gimme your order and I'll tell you the rest of the news." 
"Three Carta Blancas and a 'rita is all." 
Ricki began to mix the margarita. "That's a 'rita and three Carta Blancas, Pris," said Ricki sternly, reminding her of the hierarchy of ordering. 
"Sorry," Priscilla sighed. "I'm just excited," she explained, knowing full well that this was destined to be a shift like any other, complete with dropped menus, spilled cocktails, botched orders, undercharges, overcharges, pinches from the lecherous and insults from the chaste. Ah, but there was relief in sight. A twenty- five-hundred-dollar rainbow with perfume at one end and, who knows, maybe the' perfect taco at the other. 
"Now," said Ricki, uncapping the beers and placing them on Priscilla's tray, "the crowning mojo is, the clinic says my infection is totally cleared up. So you and I can stay together tomorrow night." 
Priscilla labored to fake a smile. "Gee, that's great, Rick. But you do remember that I have something going tomorrow night. It's that dinner party at the Last Laugh Foundation." 
"You mean you're actually gonna go to that?" 
"Well, yeah. It's got my curiosity up." 
"Okay, if you wanna waste your time, go ahead. Bunch of druggy weirdos putting on the ritz for some big scientist who's probably also a druggy weirdo, if the truth be known. It's not my cup of cake." 
"Well, I've decided to go." "All right. I'll meet you afterward." "It might be late." "So what? I'll wait up for you." 
Priscilla shrugged with resignation. It looks like it's just my destiny to turn queer, she thought. Why fight it? To Ricki she said, "Your place or mine?" not caring that two other waitresses were lined up behind her, impatient to place their orders but savoring every word. 
"Yours is closer." 
"It's a mess." 
"It's always a mess." 
"I guess it is. How come your place is always so neat? How do you do it? With mirrors?" 
Ricki shook her head. "My lunar, sign is in Virgo," she said. "Every month when the moon is full, I'm driven to balance my checkbook and straighten up my apartment. I can't help myself. Instead of a werewolf, I turn into an accountant." 
"Who can only be killed with a silver dildo," called Priscilla, walking away with her drinks while her fellow employees, now four deep in front of the waitress station, looked on in disgust and bewilderment. 
She completed the Saturday shift with no more than the usual mishaps. There was a birthday party at one of her tables, which meant that she had to deliver a complimentary cake with lighted candle and sing "Happy Birthday" to the recipient, a chore that she always despised. She felt better, however, when she 
overheard another customer, a famous young fashion photographer from Madrid, who was being treated to El Papa Muerta's Uncle Ben paella by some Seattle department store executives, proclaim, "How embarrassing, how gauche! In Europe such vulgarity would never happen. A birthday is a private affair. Only in America would it be a cheap public display." The last thing she did before she went off duty was to order a birthday cake sent to the photographer at his table. 
On the way out, she gave Ricki her spare key so that the bartender could let herself in to wait for her on Sunday night. "See you after the party," Pris said. "Thanks for the good news." 
"I'm sure you'll find a way to repay me," said Ricki. She winked. 
Priscilla bicycled home, where, relieved by the absence of beet at her door and bolstered by the prospect of financial aid, she allowed herself the rare luxury of going straight to bed. In her dreams, however, she mixed fragrances continuously, awakening the next morning, still in uniform, feeling almost as tired as if she had worked through the night. 
Having slept with her tips in her pocket, she found red welts the size of quarters on her thigh when she showered. "Marked by the Beast!" she exclaimed. "Well, there's one thing to be said for money. It can make you rich." 
After a breakfast of half-fresh doughnuts and canned Carnation milk, she attacked the apartment with sponge and cleanser, with mop and broom, with organizational tactics for which she'd previously exhibited little aptitude. She would not settle for less than spick-and-span. "Won't Ricki be surprised," she said. 
In the afternoon, she napped. She dreamed of her father. They were in his palace in Mexico. He was rubbing salve into the welts on her thigh. V'lu Jackson was down on all fours, scrubbing the palace floor. There was a strong odor of ammonia. The odor was still there when Priscilla awoke. For a whole minute, she did not recognize her own apartment. 
The least wrinkled garment—and even it had as many folds as the waddles of a Republican president—in her closet was a green knit dress given to her by her ex-husband, the Argentine accordion ace, Effecto Partido. She hung it in the bathroom with the shower on hot and full, until the steam performed the equivalent of one of those partially successful face-lifts administered to aging 
actresses. The dress looked good on her. It called attention to the violet in her eyes. She applied eye shadow and lipstick and as a finishing touch, forced earring wires through the virtually grown-over holes in her lobes. The earrings were also a gift from Effecto. They were tiny accordions. 
With a tingle of excitement, she decided to call for a taxi. The Last Laugh Foundation was only a dozen blocks away, but it was raining, as usual, and she just couldn't ride her bike in her best dress. She turned the latch, checking twice 
to ascertain that the door was tightly locked, then went downstairs to wait for the cab. "If a beet comes tonight, that carnivore Ricki can deal with it," she said. She was chuckling softly when she climbed into the Farwest taxi. 
The cab streaked through the wet streets with a noise like an asp. Alas, before Priscilla could fully enjoy the blur of neon, the crisp vinyl upholstery, the mystery crackle of the two-way radio, she was at her destination. She showed her invitation to one of a half-dozen security guards—triple the usual number— and was immediately let through the iron gate, while from the excluded crowd that spilled out front, even in the chilly drizzle that was falling, there arose loud grumbles and cries of "Who the hell is she?" Her lungs filled momentarily with a sort of golden gas, that righteous helium that inflates the diaphragm of any honest person who finds himself or herself suddenly one of an elite. Slightly giddy with privilege, she stumbled along a gravel path that wound through a rhododendron garden and led to the front steps of the mansion. She was beginning to have visions of Wally Lester's Mexican palace. They ceased when she noticed a squashed slug on the steps. 
The brass door-knocker was in the shape of a fairy. Little wings and wand and everything. "Hmm," said Priscilla. She thought that she would feel silly, putting it to its intended purpose, but it was okay. She was still regarding the knocker when a girl about eight years old opened the door and admitted her. "My daddy believes in fairies," the child said. "Hmm," replied Priscilla. 
Although the ivy-covered exterior of the Last Laugh Foundation led one to expect brown leather furniture, worn but expensive Oriental carpets, carved wood ceilings, and Flemish tapestries depicting medieval stag hunts or mythological rowdies, the interior proved to be bright and modern: chrome, smoked glass, canvas couches in bold primary hues. The floors were polished hardwood. The walls were pure white. "White as alkaloid crystals," Wiggs 
Dannyboy was to say. "White as yeti dung, white as the Sabbath, white as God's own belly. Floral patterns, they're for your doomed. Your immortalist wall is a white one." Here and there were prints by M.C. Escher, a multiplication of stiff, metamorphic images that assured the viewer that the world is a puzzle and life a loop and that is that. (Escher is sneered at by critics, but he may be one of the few artists who didn't lie to us.) Above the fireplace, in which Pres-to-logs were smoldering, was a display of headhunting equipment, probably relics of the days when Dr. Dannyboy was a working anthropologist. "Would you care for a cocktail?" the little girl asked. You bet. 
Standing about the large room were approximately twenty people, none of whom seemed any more at home there than Priscilla. She thought she recognized one of the guests. He was, oddly enough, a fragrance wholesaler, the only one in the Pacific Northwest. She had made modest purchases from him. It was he who would order French jasmine oil for her, if the educated waitresses did, indeed, grant her the funds with which to buy it. She was- about to approach him, gulping bourbon and ginger ale all the while, when Dr. Dannyboy fairly burst into the room, introduced himself loudly, and called the gathering to table. 
The dining room was formal in character, despite the feet that its long table was made of red plastic, the chairs of chrome tubes and purple canvas. The walls here were white, as well, adorned by another Escher or two, commenting again on the poetic transformations that occur systematically, if mysteriously, in the seemingly endless loop of life. Candles blazed in a plastic candelabrum. The last chrysanthemums of autumn hung their heads apprehensively over the rim of a vase, like voyagers whose crowded boat was steaming into a strange and possibly dangerous port. The chrysanthemums were part of a centerpiece that included some beets. 
Priscilla failed to notice the beets right away. Her gaze was concentrated upon Dr. Dannyboy. That a one-eyed man of fifty could be so handsome! Dannyboy was slender, svelte, and nimble, a tanned, athletic man with an Airstream nest of silver curls, teeth like the spots on dominoes, and more twinkle in his single eye than most men have in a pair. A high-voltage blue, the eye color was in aesthetic contrast to the patch that he wore on the right side, the patch being white vinyl with a painted green shamrock in its center. 
Priscilla had seen photographs of him, of course, taken both before and after he lost his eye, but they had barely hinted at the charm that spilled out of him like 
foam out of an ale mug. 
Of his background, she knew a little. Brilliant young anthropologist who left his native Dublin to teach at Harvard, where he experimented with mind-altering chemicals beyond the call of academic duty. Lost his professorship, journeyed to the Amazon to munch vision vine with the Indians, returning to the United States as a self-styled psychedelic prophet, or "electronic shaman," as he called himself, appearing on TV talk shows, lecturing on campuses everywhere, promoting with considerable flair the notion that certain drugs can raise consciousness and that persons with elevated consciousness are less apt to be violent, greedy, fearful, or repressed. Since it was hardly in the best national interest to relieve citizens of their violence, greed, fear, or repression, the government acted to silence Dr. Dannyboy by arresting him on a phony marijuana charge and checking him into the steel hotel. Escaped, only to be nabbed two years later on a Costa Rican orchid form, and imprisoned again. Paroled after nearly a decade, during which time he lost an eye to a sadistic prison guard and impregnated his wife by smuggling out his semen in a dinner roll. Turned up in Seattle a couple of years back to quietly (for him) found an institution devoted to "immortality and longevity research." 
All this Priscilla knew, but it seemed to have nothing to do with the attractive man who sat at the head of the table in Irish tweeds, sipping red wine, tapping from time to time his garish eye patch with his salad fork, and holding forth on a variety of topics. "England!" she heard him bellow with distaste. "How can a country that cannot produce ice cubes in abundance be hopin' to palm itself off as a major civilization?" Moments later, he had turned his attention to grammar: "There are no such things as synonyms!" he practically shouted. "Deluge is not the same as flood!" After each of these pronouncements, he erupted with laughter, almost as if making fun of what he'd just so passionately proclaimed. 
At the other end of the table, acting as hostess, was Dannyboy's young daughter, Huxley Anne. Priscilla sat to 
Huxley Anne's left. The place directly across from Priscilla was vacant. "There was a colored woman supposed to eat there," volunteered Huxley Anne, "but she didn't come. Maybe she's late. She lives long away." The place to the right of Dannyboy was likewise unoccupied. "That's Dr. Morgenstern's dish," explained the little girl. "He'll be downstairs soon as he finishes jumping." 
"Jumping?" asked Priscilla. 
"Uh-huh," said Huxley Anne, giggling. Before she could say more, Professor Morgenstern entered the room and made to take his place. A tall, thickset German, gray-suited, bespectacled, bald as a bomb, the noted chemist might have appeared the epitome of the cold, clear-eyed, methodical, reasoning man were he not panting like a Saint Bernard on avalanche patrol. His face was as red as a Christmas sock, and his heart was pounding so hard that his bow tie was bouncing. 
Despite the fact that the guest of honor was obviously and oddly out of breath, the others at table were relieved to see him. They were, for the most part, members of Seattle's scientific fraternity—department heads from the University of Washington, Boeing Aircraft physicists, research chemists at Swedish Hospital, mayoral advisers on medicine and technology—and they had been ill at ease in the company of Wiggs Dannyboy, what with his careless pronouncements and boisterous laughter. Wary of Dannyboy's reputation, the good academics probably believed their host loaded on some arcane substance, though Priscilla had been around both French Quarter trippers and Irish Channel blarneymongers long enough to recognize that this particular brand of bullshit was not artificially induced. 
At any rate, the guests were visibly relieved when Dr. Morgenstern joined them, and they applauded when Wiggs lifted his much-consulted wineglass and said, "Ladies and gentlemen, let us be welcomin' to Seattle, to the Last Laugh Foundation, to our pleasant company here on this rainy November eve, the world's only double Nobel laureate, your Dr. Wolfgang Morgensten!." 
As the applause died out and the chemist sat down to analyze the minestrone soup, little Huxley Anne leaned over to Pris and whispered, "Wolfgang, show us some tricks on your Nobel lariat. That's what my daddy says. Hee hee." Priscilla laughed at that. Wiggs must have heard her laugh, because he grinned approvingly in her direction and waved at her with his soup spoon. 
The salmon linguine was tasty, and Huxley Anne, who was edging toward roly- poliness, got seriously involved with it. The seat across from Priscilla remained vacant. The other guests attempted to converse with the rather taciturn Dr. Morgenstern. Most of their questions were fielded by Wiggs Dannyboy, who, after a rational sentence or two, would issue some immortalist epigram, such as, 
"If you can't take it with you, don't go," or 'Death is a grave mistake," followed by a jolly roar from deep within his tweeds—and pained smiles from the polite diners. Eating in silence, Priscilla was mildly amused by it all—until she spotted the trio of raw beets in the centerpiece. 
Could Dannyboy be behind the produce deposits at her doorsill? And if so, to what possible end? She sank into a swamp of spooky speculation, from which she emerged with a start when a maid inquired if she wanted chocolate mousse or apple slices for dessert. "Uh, er, beg your pardon?" mumbled • Priscilla. 
"How do you feel about calories?" asked the maid, displaying the dessert tray. 
"Well, there are more of them than there are of us," said Pris. She selected the mousse. 
Huxley Anne squealed at this, and for the second time during the meal, Wiggs wagged a utensil at Priscilla and regarded her warmly. 
After coffee, the guests thinned out rapidly. They had obviously come solely to meet Wolfgang Morgenstern, and having accomplished that, to greater or lesser degrees of disappointment, they made for the exit. (Exit, not egress. There are no such things as synonyms.) "Interesting," thought Priscilla, "these people wanting out so badly and all those others on the street wanting in." She elected to join the small, brave group that gathered in the front room for brandy and tobacco. She thought perhaps there might be a tour of the laboratories later. Mostly she wished to inquire about those beets on the table. 
"I have to go to bed now, Miz . . . ?" "Partido. Miz Partido. But you can call me Priscilla." 
"I have to go to bed now, Priscilla. It's after ten and the cigar smoke makes me dizzy." 
"Goodnight, Huxley Anne. It's been totally awesome." She shook the child's chubby hand. "Say, do you think your daddy will let us have a peek at his laboratories?" 
The little girl looked puzzled. "What labbertories?" she asked. 
"Hmm," said Priscilla. "No labs? Well, I guess I shouldn't be surprised. Can you show me where you hung my raincoat? Cigar smoke makes me dizzy, too." 
She downed her cognac in a single gulp, causing evidence of alcohol trauma to roll down her cheeks as she donned her yellow vinyl slicker. She waved goodbye to the blurry figure of Huxley Anne that was ascending the stairs, and somewhat timidly, despite being three-quarters drunk, approached her host. He was stationed in front of the fireplace, pointing out some feathered skinning knives to an academic-looking couple that was trying its best to get away in order to speak to Dr. Morgenstern. "Your cannibal gourmet is partial to the palm o' the hand," Wiggs was saying, "but his piece de resistance is the testicles. Tried them myself once. Bloody delicious!" The woman gasped. 
"Excuse me, please. Dr. Dannyboy ..." 
Wiggs turned to face Priscilla, his good eye, so bright with intelligence and rebellion, swinging like a beacon. The shamrock patch followed in its wake, "You're not leavin'?" 
"Yep. I don't know what I'm doing here in the first place. But thanks for dinner. Bloody delicious." 
The couple fled. Dannyboy grinned. "Sure and go on with you. The likes of you is a wee bit o" delicious, as well." O' delicious is what he said and o' delicious is probably what he meant, o' palatable, o' savory, -and o' delectable being unacceptable synonyms. "Do you have to be runnin'?" 
The glint in his eye! The lilt in his voice! Her estrogen level accelerated from zero to sixty in one-point-nine seconds. The gravity force was so great it snapped her pelvis back and stiffened her nipples. It was with difficulty that she replied, "I do. I have a date." 
"A date, eh? You're actin' none too happy about it. As a matter of fact, darlin', if I may say as much, you strike me as an unhappy woman overall. And I say as much even though you were the only guest here this evening with a sense o' humor. Which is to say, you were the only guest with any wisdom about you." 
Priscilla was rather taken aback. She didn't know whether to feel insulted or flattered. "I'm fine," she said. "I've been kinda tired. You're jumping to conclusions. Besides, unhappiness is natural. I'm not one of those bubbleheads 
that spend all their time trying to avoid the normal misery of life." She moved toward the front door, but none too swiftly. He followed. 
"Sure and life is a lot o' misery, all right, and death is more misery, yet. Dread, fear, anxiety, guilt, even a bit o' neurosis, are perfectly natural responses to a life that promises such an unacceptable end. The trick is not to take such responses too seriously, not to trivialize your all too short stay in your carton o' flesh by cooperatin' with misery." 
"Seems to me," said Priscilla, snapping and unsnapping the collar of her slicker, "that the so-called happy people are the ones who are trivial. Avoiding reality and never thinking about anything important." 
"Reality is subjective, and there's an unenlightened tendency in this culture to regard something as 'important' only if 'tis sober and severe. Sure and still you're right about your Cheerful Dumb, only they're not so much happy as lobotomized. But your Gloomy Smart are just as ridiculous. When you're unhappy, you get to pay a lot of attention to yourself. And you get to take yourself oh so very seriously. Your truly happy people, which is to say, your people who truly like themselves, they don't think about themselves very much. Your unhappy person resents it when you try to cheer him up, because that means he has to stop dwellin' on himself and start payin' attention to the universe. Unhappiness is the ultimate form o' self-indulgence." 
Did he think she was an audience or something? Couldn't he tell that she was an off-duty waitress full of mousse and booze, and stuck on a collision course with the lips of a pretty Italian bartender? "Jesus," she said. "You talk like a book." 
"That's not surprisin'." "You mean you read too much?" 
"There's no such thing. Unless it's prissy academic novels that you're readin'. No, I mean that when I was a wee lad, I used to climb into my parents' bed of a morning early, crawl in between my mum and dad, and each o' them would immediately roll over and turn a back to me, just like they were a pair o' bookends. It's only natural I grew up thinkin' I was a bloody volume." 
"Parental rejection, uh? There's a subject I know inside out. It doesn't appear to 
have slowed you down." . "Would you be likin' to discuss it?" 
"No," she said. She saw her opening and went for it. "I'd be liking to discuss beets." 
A laugh went off in his throat like a rat-bomb, sending the last of the guests scurrying for their bumbershoots. His eye closed and then slowly opened, a process that took so long that by the time his iris was up to full glint, the house had been cleared of Seattle scientists and Wolfgang Morgenstern was halfway up the stairs. "Beets, you say?" 
"Right! I want to know why I was invited here tonight and why the center of your dining room table bears a striking resemblance to my doorjamb." 
Her tone was so firm that he could have set his brandy on it. 
"Ah. Indeed. Yes. Well, to be perfectly frank, Miss Par-tido, darlin', there was a ration o' beets on my table tonight because there has been beets at your very own door—but, alas, I'm not sure o' the connection myself. Except that it has something to do with the thousand-year-old janitor and his perfume." 
She looked him over pore by pore. He was slightly sloshed and terribly flaky (and cute in that daddy way that always made her heart roll over), but he wasn't surfing the psychedelic billows, she was reassured of that. Moreover, he seemed sincere. "What are you talking about?" she asked. 
"Sure and what am I talkin' about, indeed. I was hopin' we could get into that tonight, but only one o' you showed up. Actually, I've known all week that Marcel LeFever wouldn't be here until next Sunday, but I really was expectin' the other—" 
"Wait a minute. Marcel LeFever? The perfumer?" "The one and the same." 
Priscilla had heard Bunny LeFever speak at a perfumers' convention. It had been quite a speech. It had, in some crazy way, changed her life. She unsnapped her slicker. "I think we need to sit down and talk," she said. 
"All right, then," he said, helping her out of the coat. "I'll be gettin' us a splash o' 
something. And, say, Miss Partido, though I know it's an affront to the Virgin Mary to be mixin' business with pleasure, pleasure is my business—the extension o' pleasure, indefinitely, eternally—and my immortal soul is wanned by the loveliness o' you, you're a sight for sore eyes, so to speak"—he tapped his shamrock patch with his empty snifter—"and I deserve to be chained by night in a church basement without company o' cassette player if I am not man enough to ask you for the teeniest, slightest brush of oral-muscular affection." 
Jesus, she thought. / bet the son of a bitch does believe in fairies. But she couldn't help herself. She kissed him. 
Meanwhile, a dozen blocks away, Ricki, carrying a pound of gift-wrapped chocolate, had let herself into Priscilla's apartment. There had been no trick to that. The door wasn't locked. It had been slightly ajar, in fact. Ricki shook her head. "Where is that girl's mind at?" she wondered. 
In addition, the apartment was in the worst state Ricki had ever seen it. True, no gnarled old beets were in evidence, and it smelled as if it had been recently scoured—tbe odor of ammonia cut right through the floral fragrances in the makeshift laboratory—but drawers were out of the dresser, the kitchenette cupboard looked as if it had been rifled by a starving ape, and possessions were scattered everywhere. There were sanitary napkins all over the bathroom, that's how bad it was. 
Ricki rolled up her sweatshirt sleeves and set to putting the place in order. It took her the best of two hours—lucky it was only a studio apartment—but her Virgo exactitude finally prevailed. "Won't Pris be surprised," she said. "It's after midnight. I hope she gets home soon." 
NEW ORLEANS 
THE MINUTE YOU LAND IN NEW ORLEANS,something wet and dark leaps on you and starts humping you like a swamp dog in heat, and the only way to get that aspect of New Orleans off you is to eat it off. That means beignets and crayfish bisque and jambalaya, it means shrimp remoulade, pecan pie, and red 
beans with rice, it means elegant pompano au papillote, funky file z'herbes, and raw oysters by the dozen, it means grillades for breakfast, a po' boy with chowchow at bedtime, and tubs of gumbo in between. It is not unusual for a visitor to the city to gain fifteen pounds in a week—yet the alternative is a whole lot worse. If you don't eat day and night, if you don't constantly funnel the indigenous flavors into your bloodstream, then the mystery beast will go right on humping you, and you will feel its sordid presence rubbing against you long after you have left town. In fact, like any sex offender, it can leave permanent psychological scars. 
You would think that the natives would be immune, and to a certain extent they are, but even a lifelong resident of New Orleans must do his or her share of Creole consumption or suffer consequences. The cuisine is glorious, of course, and the fact that the people of New Orleans are compelled to dine out so often should not be considered a hardship in any sense other than financial. Ah, but there are underlying motives about which southern gentry will not speak. Even riffraff are hesitant to acknowledge the disgusting specter that haunts their city. They feed the loa and make the best of it. 
When citizens have been out of town for a while, they know by instinct that no matter how well they may have dined on their journey, they must fend off the beast immediately upon their return. Thus, V'lu Jackson stepped off the jetliner from Seattle to find herself craving a fancy platter of Arnaud's daube pan^e, accompanied by a glass of Bichot Chass-Montrachet (with maybe a squirt of hurricane drops for the zoom that was in it). However, to Lily Devalier, who met her at the airport, she said, "Mmm, ah sure would lak to stop by Buster Holmes, git me a mess a ribs 'fore we goes home." 
And Madame Devalier said, "Gracious, cher, I dropped everything and spent a small fortune to dash all the way out to Moisant Field"—she still called New Orleans International by its original name—"to meet you, and now you want me to sit around that hole-in-the-wall while you slop and slather over ribs. Didn't they give you a meal on the plane?" She complained, but she ordered their taxi to Buster's because she secretly understood. 
What Madame did not understand was why V'lu requested that she come to the airport. Indeed, she didn't fully understand the circumstances that had led to V'lu traveling to Seattle in the first place. She had ignored the card inviting the staff of Parfumerie Devalier to a dinner party at some Seattle place that sounded like a 
comedy nightclub. She suspected it was a publicity stunt for a dump where Priscilla was working. "Dr. Wolfgang Morgenstern" was probably one of those loud Jewish boys who got paid for telling dirty jokes in public. Then an envelope arrived containing a round-trip plane ticket, and a guest list that included scientists, perfumers, and, yes, Priscilla Partido. Very curious. Still, Lily refused to consider attending, but V'lu began pestering her to allow her to go, and while the idea of V'lu sitting down to dinner with gentlemen of science seemed ludicrous to her, curiosity, concern for Priscilla, indigestion or something else got the better of her, and she let that poor simple bayou girl go jetting off to make a fool of herself—and the shop—in a distant city that as far as Madame could tell was barely civilized. 
She had worried the entire time her assistant was gone. When the telegram came asking her to meet V'lu's flight, she grew as edgy as a thirty-dollar diamond. But there V'lu was, waltzing through the terminal looking as pretty and composed as Miss Tanzania on a TV beauty pageant, and smiling like the catastrophe that swallowed the Canary Islands. And every time Madame attempted to question her about the trip, she just smiled in that smug but guilty fashion and said, "Ah powerful hungry, ma'am. We talks 'bout it after Ah eats." 
Of course, V'lu wasn't threatened by starvation, it was just that she didn't fancy anything hot and nasty rubbing up against her—unless it belonged to Marcel LeFever. Or maybe Bingo Pajama. By the time the first ounce of rib sauce had slid down her gullet, the beast was slinking away, and she felt safe enough to elucidate. "Dee troof is, ma'am, to answer yo question, no, Ah didn't see her." 
Madame was incredulous. "You didn't see Priscilla?! Wasn't she at the party?!" "Yes, ma'am, she wuz." "Well "But Ah wuzn't." 
Lily Devalier would have been beside herself except that there wasn't enough room at the table. (Madame D. was carrying more tonnage than any woman to dock in Buster's since Velma Middleton, or maybe Bessie Smith.) "What in God's name are you talking about, child?! You didn't go to the party?!" 
"No, ma'am." 
"Sacrebleu!" Lily pulled a handkerchief out of her old-fashioned black purse and mopped her brow. The hankie was scented with something—Bingo Pajama jasmine? Jazz powders? Or worse?—that caused several dark heads to look up knowingly from their beans and rice. "Well, what happened? What went wrong?" She was entertaining visions of V'lu getting lost in Seattle, failing to find this "Last Laughing" place, or being barred at its door. 
"Muffin. Nuffin went wrong." She let her lips stretch into that infuriatingly mysterious and self-satisfied smile. "Sompin" went right." 
"Merde," snapped Madame Devalier, who would never permit herself to swear in English. "You better get out with it, right now—out with it!—what is going on?!" 
V'lu let the words slide slowly through barbecue-colored saliva and perfect teeth: "Ah gots dee bottle." 
There was scarcely any response from Madame Devalier. She merely blinked once or twice and looked dumb, or stunned, like a baby whale washed ashore on a fashionable beach. 
"Ah gots dee bottle," said V'lu again. 
Clearly confused, Madame blinked a few more times. She seemed almost senile. "But that is Pris's bottle," she protested weakly. 
"Not any mo, it ain't!" "You stole it from her?" 
"Ah libberated it," said Vlu. "Dat bottle belong to our shop, it nebber wuz Miz Priscilla's, you know dat as good as me." 
Madame was uncertain if she knew that or not. Having paid scant attention to the bottle, the circumstances surrounding its arrival and departure were vague to her. She squeezed her eyes shut and sniffed at her hankie, trying to remember. 
Yes, it was after Pris's marriage to that old tango-wango fell apart, after her daddy died. Pris had announced, with a certain pathetic bravado, that she was going to become a perfumer after all. Nothing could have pleased Lily more. But 
the girl didn't want to apprentice in her stepmother's floundering shop, oh, no, she intended to enter college to study chemistry. She had a settlement from Effecto Partido and was going to use it to learn modern fragrance manufacturing. None of that old-fashioned, small-potatoes, storefront Devalier perfumery for her. Lily was a little hurt, but she was aware that times had changed and that to a younger generation her ways were quaint, if not obsolete. In the end, she sent Pris off to Vanderbilt University with her blessings. 
Although she earned straight A's, Priscilla had remained restless and melancholy, and upon completion of her freshman year had returned to New Orleans, claiming that she was through with college and wanted to take over Parfumerie 
Devalier. In the meantime, however, Madame had accepted as her assistant a young black woman from Belle Bayou, the plantation owned by a branch of the Devalier family. V'lu Jackson was eager and bright, though almost laughably countrified, and Madame had grown fond of her. She wasn't going to kick V'lu out the door in favor of Pris when Pris was liable to change her mind at any moment and go chasing after a fortune, an older man, or both. Moreover, V'lu functioned as Madame's maid as well as her shop assistant, a duty for which Priscilla would have neither instinct nor inclination. And when it came to loyalty and respect, V'lu was more like a daughter to her than Priscilla had ever been. 
Madame informed Pris that she could stay for the summer, providing she earned her keep, but that come September she would have to make other arrangements. Pris was none too happy with that, but Effecto's settlement was fast dwindling and she hadn't much choice. She worked diligently, if clumsily, and minded her manners, although she often walked around with her lower lip sticking out so far she could have' eaten tomatoes through a tennis racket. 
It was during that summer, yes, that was when it was all right, that there arrived the bottle over which there has been such a silly commotion. Some beachcombers brought it in, Madame recalled, a retired couple. They had dug it out of the mud near the mouth of the Mississippi, and since it was obviously quite old, they thought it might be of interest to someone in the perfume trade. Having recently moved into a mobile home, they had little room for bric-a-brac, and besides, the fellow on the side of the bottle was some sort of devil whose image didn't belong in a Christian household. They were donating their find to the Parfumerie Devalier, they said, because they had purchased a small vial of 
scent there forty-five years earlier on their honeymoon. 
Yes, yes, it was as clear to Lily now as dew on a shoelace; Pris and V'lu had been standing behind the retail counter, and Pris was saying, "College is fun and you can learn a lot of interesting stuff, but if you really want to get rich, you've got to get out in the world and start something up on your own." Sniffing her handkerchief, Madame could hear those words as plain as if they were on Buster's menu. And it was right then, she remembered, that the beachcombers had come in with the bottle and made their little presentation. 
She'd been busy at her desk, working on the books, figuring if there was any way to put the shop back on its feet, put it back to showing a profit from perfume so she wouldn't have to dabble in that . . . that other work. From the rear of the shop, she thanked the couple for their nostalgic gesture, but she didn't get up. She could tell at a distance that the bottle was too large to have held a truly fine perfume; that, in any case, there were only a few drops left in it, and time and tide had no doubt rendered those drops impotent long ago. It had a pleasing shape, all right, and its bluish tint lent it a mystic aura. What with that weird horned figure embossed on the side, it would make an excellent container for mojo lotion or moon medicine were she forced by cruel circumstances to add to the hoodoo pharmacopoeia. She would examine it at her leisure, evaluating then its possible use to her. Meanwhile, speaking of hoodoo, she had some red ink to turn black. 
Her face was deep in the ledger, as it was now deep in her scented hankie, when Pris and V'lu pulled the stopper out of the bottle and began oohing and aahing over the aroma it released. What did they know, a rustic plantation pickaninny and a dropped-out college girl? She would put her professional snout to the vessel when she had a moment, but really, what olfactory excitement could there be in a virtually empty curiosity exhumed from the mud? 
Having wrestled with the balance sheet until dinner, Ma-dame had begun to nod almost upon swallowing her last spoonful of gumbo. She went to bed without ever having tested the depleted contents of the antique. And during the night, Priscilla had eloped with the bottle much as she had with Effecto Partido (only this time nobody had had to play an accordion outside her window). Well, summer was ending, anyway, so good-bye, Pris, honey, and God bless. Her exodus was probably for the best. As for the bottle, it was unimportant, although in the ensuing three years, V'lu had found endless occasions to squawk about it. 
When Lily removed the hankie from her face and snapped out of her trance, she found V'lu gnawing delicately at the corner of a rib. Diners who had been staring returned to their meals. One, with a mouthful of cornbread, whispered to his companion, "That ol' Madame D. got plant powers." He didn't specify which plant. 
"V'lu, I don't especially approve of what you've done. It was dishonest and unnecessary. That bottle obviously meant something to Priscilla, it was part of her fantasy. Little value it is to us." 
"Ah doesn't wants you to say anubber word until you smells it, ma'am. You ain't nebber smelled it!" 
"Well ..." 
"It gots a jasmine theme, a mighty jasmine theme, near bouts as good as our Bingo Pajama flowers. It gots a citrus top note, lak our boof gots. And it gots something else, ma'am, it gots a bottom note. It gots a base whut does dee job!" 
"Just the same, Priscilla was—" "Smell it." "But—" "Smell it!" 
"All right. But not in here." 
They walked out onto Burgandy Street as the sun was setting. It was late November, and there was a chill in the air, but there were people on balconies and people on stoops. They were in one of the few sections of the French Quarter where blacks still lived, most of them having been driven across the North Rampart Street boundary by escalating rents. It seemed the sleazier the Quarter got, the more it cost to live there. 
Of the buildings on Burgandy, most were four-room Creole cottages that lacked the shady courtyards where, out of sight of tourists and photographers, the true social life of the Quarter transpired. Here, residents sat on their stoops instead, yet even thus exposed, they managed to protect their privacy. A stranger could 
watch their languid movements, hear their laughter and music, smell the spicy foods they ate, but could never expect to be a part of those things. And when they went inside and shut their doors, their habits became as unknowable as those of ancient Congolese. The historian Kolb has called New Orleans "a city that has never truly been in the mainstream of American life." Although an indoors city to a large extent, New Orleans watches less television than any town its size in the nation. What does it do, then, behind those closed shutters? What, indeed? 
If New Orleans is not fully in the mainstream of culture, neither is it fully in the mainstream of time. Lacking a well-defined present, it lives somewhere between its past and its future, as if uncertain whether to advance or to retreat. Perhaps it is its perpetual ambivalence that is its secret charm. Somewhere between Preservation Hall and the Superdome, between voodoo and cybernetics, New Orleans listens eagerly to the seductive promises of the future but keeps at least one foot firmly planted in its history, and in the end, conforms, like an artist, not to the world but to its own inner being—ever mindful of its personal style. 
Turning down St. Ann Street, toward Jackson Square and the river, the two women—the older, white, painted, and bejeweled one simultaneously lumbering and waddling, as if the bear and the duck on the animated Hamms beer commercial had coupled and issued an illicit offspring; the younger black one wiggling pertly on sleek hams—were together an expression of the city's style. And it was completely in character when they stopped beside a tall wrought-iron gate, spiky with fleurs-de-lis, so that the younger could remove a bottle from her weekend bag and pass it furtively to the other. 
"Let go of it, I have it," said Madame Devalier. "Man Dieu, you'd think it was going to run away." She scrutinized the bottle for a while in the waning light, scowling at the devilish. figure that seemed at once so mischievous and so forlorn. "Harumph," she snorted. His image sat no easier with her Catholic sentiments than it had with the superstitions of the Southern Baptist beachcombers. "Harumph." 
"We gots to be careful. Miz Priscilla coulda call dee police or somethin'. Dat's why Ah ax you to meets me at dee airpote. You thinks it okay to take it to dee shop?" 
Madame didn't hear a word. She had removed the tight stopper, and her nostrils 
were hovering, quivering; the open bays of a mother ship beaming up cargo. Indeed, her nose, her whole head, seemed to be growing heavier, larger as she inhaled; and her pulled-back hair, dyed as black as Satchmo's coronet case, was actually rippling in the Tabasco dusk. 
Like a baby grand in a town without piano movers, Ma-dame had settled firmly into place, her bulk as transfixed as a wild hog in truck lights. A jazz funeral could have marched through the gates of her corset, and she wouldn't have squirmed. To a passerby, to V'lu, perhaps, she was a dumpy old lady with her feet in black lace-ups and her nose to a bottle top, but inside her swelling head, up among the rafters of the sphenoethmoidal recess, a music was rising, a happiness was rising; her dumpy old heart was rising, made buoyant and girlish again, a lost beach ball blown miles along a levee, illuminated by heat lightning. 
V'lu waited patiently. She knew that it was a good sign that Madame was taking so long. She could almost feel the energy radiating from the unfashionable pleats of Madame's midnight blue chemise, she could sense it etching lines in Madame's thick rouge and collecting in the colored hollows of the gems she wore. V'lu tapped her Tootsie Roll toes and waited. 
The sun had set, and St. Ann Street was in darkness by the time Lily restoppered the bottle and handed it back to V'lu. Her face was radiant, although whether from memory or expectation nobody could tell. "I wish Papa could have smelled it." Her voice was both shaky and blissful, and for quite a while that was all she said. 
They walked in silence, the old woman swinging her purse. As they reached Royal Street and turned left toward the shop, she said, "I'm proud of you, V'lu, and Pris, too. You recognized its magnificence right away. It's for the two of you that I am going to interpret that base note. Right now I am mystified as to what it might be. There's not enough liquid left in the bottle to have it analyzed by a chemistry lab. But I shall find it, you can count on that! Lily Devalier may not be a celebrated nose like Bunny LeFever, she may have indulged in practices for which any respectable perfumer would hang their head in shame, but she knows her perfume, believe her, she knows the bricks of perfume and the mortar of perfume, and she knows each and every one of the circuits and emotions of perfume." She paused. "I think this stuff must be Egyptian. I've been told some of their perfumes have retained their boof after three thousand years. And then the bottle!" She crossed herself, still swinging her purse. "Some sex demon out 
of pagan Egypt. They'd love his kind at Mardi Gras. His boof is heavenly, though. That poor little Pris. Such an amateur. She had about as much chance as a snowball in Gulfport of tracking down that base note. Right?" 
"You right." 
"But I will track it down. I will recreate this great perfume— with our jasmine it will be even greater—and I will dedicate it to you and Pris." 
She lumber-waddled on down the block, her handbag whirling in an even wider arc. There were neighborhoods in the world, perhaps even in New Orleans, where she would have attracted attention, but the French Quarter was not one of them. There were in the French Quarter, after all, gay men who wore dog collars and were led around on leashes by their lovers, there were heavily tattooed women who draped themselves with snakes, Dixie mystics who sewed their eyelids shut and would tell your fortune for a beignet, and people who wore their Mardi Gras costumes three hundred and sixty-five days of the year. No, the French Quarter was hardly the neighborhood to take particular notice of an overly made-up stout woman swinging a purse. For that matter, the Quarter took no particular notice of the lanky black man wearing a strangely whirring, pulsating, undulating skullcap who stepped from the shadows and approached the stout woman, extending to her a huge bouquet of jasmine branches, wrapped in soggy newspaper. 
That is, the Quarter took no particular notice until two men in suits emerged from shadows on the opposite side of the street and shot the black man dead. 
PARIS 
"... NINETY MILLION YEARS AGO, give or take twenty million, there occurred ..." . 
What was that? Was that Bunny's voice? 
". . . two events that should be of interest to all perfumers. It was then, toward the end . 
It was Bunny's voice. ". . . of the Cretaceous Period, that..." 
Who but Bunny had a large, deep, soft, hot, suffocated voice, a voice like coal being formed in the swamps of the Cretaceous Period? 
". . . the flowers wiped out the dinosaurs." 
Perhaps Bunny talked that way because, unlike the majority of Frenchmen, he refused-to talk through his nose. Bunny believed the nose designed for grander things. But how could Bunny be in Luc's office? Bunny was supposed to have caught the morning flight to America. 
Upon hearing his cousin's voice, Claude LeFever's hand had gone as stiff as Medusa's optometrist. Now he commanded motor function back into its fingers and slowly turned the knob. There at the presidential desk, his scow of a head thankfully relieved of its whale mask cargo, sat his father, listening to a cassette player. Luc LeFever nodded to his son and pushed the Pause button. The cassette silenced, Claude could hear the blood singing in the old man's clogged arteries like the choir aboard the Titanic. 
"Sit down, son, and listen to this. I trust your liver is strong this morning." 
"If this is the speech Bunny made at the convention, I've heard it once, and that was once too often." 
"I know," said Luc, "but I'm looking for clues. I suspect that it was this fool speech that got Marcel invited to the Last Laugh Foundation. I'm trying to determine what it might have been they heard in it." He pushed Rewind. 
Claude didn't give a big quiche about the Last Laugh Foundation, about Bunny's visit to it, or Luc's morbid interest, in it. Claude had come to his father's office to discuss the so-called agent file. He was disturbed that one V'lu Jackson was liste.d as a spy for their company. He wondered if Luc was aware that Bunny 
was mad about V'lu. Had the old man instigated their affair? Had Bunny played a role in recruiting V'lu? That seemed unlikely, yet Claude had an annoying feeling that business had been conducted behind his back. He was intent upon answers, but it appeared that he would have to wait until they'd listened, once again, to the address that had so embarrassed them when Bunny had delivered it to the Eighth International Congress of Aromatics (the biannual perfumers' convention) in New Orleans during early June. 
"Do I have to sit through this? I need to talk to you about—" 
"Shush." Luc aimed his cigar as if it were a laser. Having zapped Claude's vocal cords, he pushed Pause, then Play. 
The tape had rewound farther than necessary, and the first sounds to escape the transmitter were those of the chief executive of a large New York fragrance corporation concluding a talk on the future of the industry. "In selecting fine fragrances, the perfumer has the most knowledge as to what new compounds and materials ^are available, but I don't believe he is close enough to the marketplace or the consumer to apply this knowledge correctly. Finished goods manufacturers have begun almost exclusively to put full responsibility for fragrance selection for their products in the hands of marketing people rather than technical people or fragrance compounders. This trend has made for more commercial, and somehow more successful, fragranced products having been launched in recent years." 
Claude smiled to imagine how Bunny must have been fuming over those assertions. 
". . . fragrance must be styled just as fashions are, or automobiles, or table settings, or anything else. Fragrance styles, like fashion styles, are cyclical, but new developments in chemicals, like new developments in fabrics, mean a return-with-a-difference. Thank you." 
During the applause that followed, Claude pictured Bunny clinching pale, manicured fists. In Claude's picture, his cousin was the only member of the audience not clapping. In real life, however, that was not the case. Wiggs Dannyboy had not applauded because he had heard nothing that astonished him (he had, in fact, been bored and disappointed with his introduction to perfuming). V'lu Jackson and Priscilla Partido had not applauded because they, 
in -separate parts of the auditorium, were so close to sleep that their breathing was locked into snore-launch modes. They nodded through the introduction of "master perfumer Marcel LeFever," twitching into wakefulness only when their respective subconscious minds were pricked, for some odd reason, by the words, "It was then, toward the end of the Cretaceous Period, that the flowers wiped out the dinosaurs." 
Oblivious to the fact that he'd shaken two attractive amateurs from the mosquito nets of drowsiness and reversed an outside observer's decision to go to the men's room for a toke of marijuana, Bunny continued: "Science knows that the disappearance of dinosaurs and the appearance of flowers occurred simultaneously, yet, strangely, it has never drawn much of a connection between the two events. It is up to perfumers to correct the oversight. 
"Vegetarian dinosaurs dined on ferns, floating water plants, and the palmlike cycad. They were not very intelligent, and certainly not very French, having developed a limited, strictly specialized diet. When the great mountain building took place during the Cretaceous Period, seaways drained and swamps dried up. First the aquatic plants, then the ferns and cycads succumbed. Insufficient surface water. Some new plants had been gradually moving in, however. These plants were inconspicuous at first, and neither the dinosaurs nor the swamp plants paid them much attention. Ah, but they had plans for the future. They began to grow their roots longer and longer, sink them deeper and deeper, until they could reach the moisture trapped beneath the surface, and when their stringy little exploratory organs hit the water table— POW!" (Bunny smacked the podium; if V'lu and Priscilla hadn't been awake before, they were now.) 
"POW! They exploded in a scandalous display of sexual invitation. 
"The old claw-and-fong world of drab, predatory, reptilian repression had never seen anything like this. Lasciviously colored, scandalously scented blossom after blossom flaunted its genitalia openly, enticing with visual and heretofore unknown olfactory charms any who might be inclined to sample its pleasures. 
"With their appalling genius for adaptability, insects responded enthusiastically to the outbreak of sensuality. So did the smaller birds. Dinosaurs, however, were repulsed. Although their reproductive equipment must have been monumental— the penis of a Brontosaurus would have been only a couple of yards shorter than the thirty-foot organ of the great blue whale—it was kept out of sight and 
infrequently used. The dim-witted, thin-blooded dinosaur was not a hot lover, another way in which it differed from the French." There was a soft ripple of laughter. Very soft. "It mated once a year, barring headaches. So put off was the prudish dinosaur by the sexy smell of flowering plants that it starved to death and went extinct rather than eat them." 
Claude was particularly bothered by this part of the speech. Claude did not enjoy being reminded of whale penises and dinosaur peepees. The very thought of big dumb clumsy dinosaurs engaged in sexual intercourse was enough to flash- freeze his gonads, making him temporarily unreceptive to his wife. For that matter, Claude resented the fact that dogs and cats and chickens were allowed by nature to indulge in sexual practices not so terribly different from his own. In a perfect world, according to Claude, coitus would be the exclusive prerogative of humans. Even most humans weren't fit to participate in an activity so sacred, so personal, so sublime. 
Often, Claude simply could not imagine the couples he met at parties or passed on the street ever being locked in carnal embrace. It was not merely disgusting, it seemed impossible. Had they not had children, he would have been convinced that they cohabited platonically. This was especially true if the people were fat or stupid. Claude believed that only smart, attractive people had the right to fuck, and it sincerely hurt him when he discovered evidence to the contrary. 
Claude was shaded by a revulsion as dark as his socks, but the tape rolled merrily along. 
"I shall not ask you to believe that an evolutionary intelligence developed flowers for the specific purpose of ridding the world of dinosaurs (and incidentally, the carnivorous dinosaurs quickly joined their vegetarian relatives in oblivion, since, with the plant-eaters gone, they had nothing to dine upon), or that that intelligence was trying to teach our planet a lesson, to wit: it is better to be small, colorful, sexy, careless, and peaceful, like the flowers, than large, conservative, repressed, fearful, and aggressive, like the thunder liz- • ards; a lesson, by the way, that the Earth has yet to learn. That is not really my point. Nor is it the point that the largest, most terrifying animals that ever lived were eradicated by fragrance. 
"No, the point is that the aroma of flowers, from which we have borrowed our perfumes, while extremely powerful, has been from the beginning entirely 
seductive in its intentions. A rose is a rose is a rogue. 
"Perfume, fundamentally, is the sexual attractant of flowers, or, in the case of civet and musk, of animals. Squeezed from the reproductive glands of plants and creatures, perfume is the smell of creation, a sign dramatically delivered to our senses of the Earth's regenerative powers—a message of hope and a message of pleasure. 
"Small wonder that the Church came to equate perfume with sin, stench with holiness. It is said that certain saints so completely neglected the normal requirements of personal hygiene that Satan himself fled in terror when approaching them from downwind—thus, their reputation for sanctity. The Church periodically favored incense and oils. LeFever purchased its original perfumery from an order of Catholic monks in 1666. Fragrance has long been an important element in ceremony and ritual. Overall, however, the Church has had to oppose perfume because it could not escape the conclusion that perfume is an implicit invitation to forbidden sexual license. As perfumers, we must face up to that reality, as well. 
"There is little difference between the Zulu warrior who smeared his body with lion's fat and the modern woman who dabs hers with expensive perfume. The one was trying to acquire the courage of the king of beasts, the other is attempting to acquire the irresistible sexuality of flowers. The underlying principle is the same." 
Claude shuddered. Lion's fat. Ugh. Where did Bunny come up with these things? 
"What we are really talking about, then, is magic, is it not so? In the anthropological understanding of homeopathic magic, perfume is the medium by which the lady magically usurps the sexual powers of the blossom. As with the warrior's lion fat, there is also more than a little fantasizing going on, for however undetailed, a potential result of the use of the magical medium is being projected onto the wearer's screen of consciousness. 
"Since the perfumer is dealing in sexual magic and romantic fantasy, he or she is operating in a. realm that is both deeply primitive and highly exalted. This realm has its rhymes and reasons, and they are not quite the same, I regret to inform you, as the rhymes and reasons of the marketplace." 
The last remark was ad libbed, apparently. In spite of himself, Claude felt a 
tingle of pride in his cousin. He turned to Luc, shaking his head and chuckling. "That Bunny is a quick one," he said. "And afraid of nothing." Luc did not reply. Luc had other things on his mind. Luc had been awake most of the night. Luc had money to invest, and now that Morgenstern had hooked up with the Last Laugh Foundation . . . well, it was worth investigating. Surely, the foundation needed funds. Who knew, maybe it could do something for him. Luc chewed his cigar and listened intently. Luc felt rotten. The circles under his eyes were the purple of bad meat. 
"Now," Marcel the Bunny was saying, "I wish to call your attention to yet another prehistorical event. About two hundred thousand years ago, the human brain tripled in size. Science has been unable to explain this relatively sudden enlargement, since beyond a certain size, a size that the brains of our ancestors had already reached two hundred thousand years ago, intelligence does not increase with brain volume. What evolutionary purpose was served, then, by tripling our cerebral real estate?" 
Bunny paused for effect, then went on. "I submit that the brain was enlarged in order to store more memories. We have learned in recent experiments that memory is stored not in specific neural centers but, holographically, throughout the brain. As the human mammal came to live longer, and to widen the scope of its intellectual activities, it had more to remember. It needed more closet space, so to speak. But the interesting thing is, the increase in memory capacity was far beyond what was needed at the time. It was, in fact, far beyond what is needed today, although we now live on the average more than three times as long as our prehistoric * ancestors, and the range of our activities has increased geometrically. Could it be that evolution was preparing us for a time in the future when we will live considerably longer than we do at present? Could the mushrooming of memory space have been long-range longevity planning? An immortalist ploy?" 
Luc grunted. "This must be the part," he said. "I passed over it the first time." He sat up in his chair. The movement made him dizzy. (Five months earlier, Wiggs Dannyboy had been pulled forward in his seat by the same remark. Wiggs had crashed the convention on a hunch, and it looked as if the hunch was paying off.) 
Bunny: "We may only speculate about such matters. We do know, however, that of our five senses, the one most directly connected to memory is the sense of smell. Although man has become increasingly visual in his orientations, 
although his olfactory receptor has shrunk until it is no larger than an American dime, sight simply cannot compete with smell when it comes to the ability to awaken memory. Memories associated with scent are invariably more immediate and more vivid than those associated solely with visual imagery or sound. Psychiatrists have begun, in feet, to use perfume to aid the patient in recreating the suppressed memories of early childhood." 
The old man cocked his head. Bunny was speaking in English, and what with the Blood Pressure Chorale caroling in Luc's temples, he had difficulty comprehending every word. English was a language fit only for narrating animated cartoons and inciting crowds at sporting events, according to Luc. 
Bunny: "Scent is the last sense to leave a dying person. After sight, hearing, and even touch are gone, the dying hold on to their sense of smell. Does that sharpen your appreciation of the arena in which we perfumers perform? 
"Fragrance is a conduit for our earliest memories, on the one hand; on the other, it may accompany us as we enter the next life. In between, it creates mood, stimulates fantasy, shapes thought, and modifies behavior. It is our strongest link to the past, our closest fellow traveler to the future. Prehistory, history, and the afterworld, all are its domain. Fragrance may well be the signature of eternity." 
"That's laying it on a bit thick," commented Claude. Luc made an effort to nod in agreement, but his head was so full of hot, noisy, polluted blood that it felt like a bistro on a weekend midnight, and he could not move it. 
The tape was enjoying perfect health, however. It stuck steadfastly to its pace. "There is a long-standing argument about whether perfuming is a science or an art. The argument is irrelevant, for at the higher levels, science and art are the same. There is a point where high science transcends the technologic and enters the poetic, there is a point where high art transcends technique and enters the poetic. 
"A perfumer, of course, is neither a quantum physicist nor a painter, but at his best, when his purposes are high purposes, when his imagination is liberated, his choices inspired, he, too, enters the poetic. And it is revealed to him, then, what the ancients meant when they said with conviction that the soul receives its sustenance via the sense of smell. 
"I have spoken to you this afternoon of poetry and of sexual magic. Not too 
many years ago, the names of our perfumes bore testimony to such things. There was a popular scent called Tabu, there was Sorcery, My Sin, Vampire, Voodoo, Evening in Paris, Jungle Gardenia, Bandit, Shocking, Intimate, Love Potion, and L'Heure Bleue—The Blue Hour. Nowadays what do we find? Vanderbilt, Miss Dior, Lauren, and Armani, perfumes named after glorified tailors"—there were murmurs and gasps in the audience—"names that evoke not the poetic, the erotic, the magic, but economic status, social snobbery, and the egomania of designers. Perfumes that confuse the essence of creation with the essence of money. How much sustenance can the soul receive from a scent entitled Bill Blass? 
"Vanderbilt and Bill Blass are what the 'marketing people' have given us." 
Marcel paused, as if trying to contain a coiling rage. Claude slapped the creased thigh of his expensive gray trousers. "Give them hell, Bunny," he said, with a mixture of affection and mockery. Luc, meanwhile, had laid down his cigar so that he might employ both his hands to massage his exploding temples. 
"Vanderbilt and Bill Blass, alas. But you know, you perfumers, in the deep unfolding rose of your hearts, you know that fragrance is no automobile or table setting, no insurance policy, no Preparation H. Attempts to reduce perfume to a predictable product with which cost accountants can safely deal; attempts to own it, control it, and make it happen when the mysterious spirit is not there are fated to end in crude failure and coarse farce. 
"Perfuming is most unlike manufacture. And perfumers should be proud to assume our historic roles as enchanters, soul feeders, sacred pimps, and alchemists. 'Marketing people' are fine enough when it comes to peddling wares, but let us remember always that it is the perfumer, the flowermaster, the guardian of the Blue Hour, who can charm the birds and bees in the human spirit —and destroy its dinosaurs." 
Scattered applause. Shocked murmurs. Nervous laughter. Then, the white-on- white whirr of blank tape. 
"That's that," said Claude, relieved that it hadn't been worse than the first time that he heard it. "The wonderful Wizard of Oz. My guess is that Wiggs Dannyboy identified with Bunny. Someone told him about the speech, and he thought, 'Here's a man who's as big a bedbug as I am.' That must have been why 
Bunny was invited to that clinic." 
Luc said nothing. Like a paper snake with a white spark on its tongue, the tape hissed on. 
Claude stretched and turned to look at his father. "Oh, no!" The executive was slumped over his desk, his face in the alabaster ashtray. The cigar was smoldering against Luc's cheek, burrowing like a red-hot worm into the head that was now the color and texture of one of Bunny's beets. 
If Claude was slow to react, it was because the smell transported him, helplessly, to a distant summer evening when he and his young bride were strolling between the braziers of kabob hawkers grilling mutton on an Algerian beach, consumed by romance but unable to see either stars or sea because of the fatty smoke. 
PART IV 
DOWNWIND FROM THE PERFECT TACO 
THE CITADEL WAS DARK and the heroes were sleeping. When they breathed, it sounded as if they were testing the air for dragon smoke. 
Except that the "citadel" was Concord State Prison and the sleeping "heroes," who had been damaged by sorry environments and shoddy genes long before they had had a chance to wax heroic, were testing the air for tear gas. These were men who didn't care if the world was round or flat. Their dreams were haunted 
 
by jack handles and cash registers, and those who had been incarcerated for five years or more dreamed only in black and white. 
Alobar did not dream at all. He was as awake as the guards on the cell block. More awake, actually, for the guards dozed over their detective magazines, dreamily musing about the long Thanksgiving weekend that was approaching, while Alobar was kept fully conscious by the smell of his body aging. 
Yes, he could smell it. During the first year of his sentence, he hadn't aged a notch. His body was still running on the impetus of a millennium of immortalist practices. With the exception of breathing techniques, he was unable to continue those practices in prison, however, and one day it dawned on his cellular bankers that the immunity accounts were overdrawn and there hadn't been a deposit in fifteen months. The DNA demanded an audit. It was learned that Alobar's figures were juggled. He had successfully embezzled more than nine hundred years. 
Outraged, the DNA must have petitioned for compensation, because within a week, Alobar's salt-and-pepper hair had turned into a pillar of sodium. Wrinkle troops hit the beaches under his eyes, dug trenches, and immediately radioed for reinforcements. Someone was mixing cement in his joints. 
Now, in his third year behind bars, he could smell, taste, and hear the accelerated aging going on inside him. It smelled like mothballs. It tasted like stale chip dip. It sounded like Lawrence Welk. 
That very morning, Doc Palmer (five-to-ten for Medicare fraud) had said to him, "Al, you looked your age when you got to Concord." (In prison records, "Albert Barr" was listed as forty-six years old.) "Now, I swear you're looking twice that much. You want a slip for the infirmary, let us have a look?" 
"No, I'm okay." "But your skin ..." "Must have been something I ate." Doc Palmer shook his head. "If you say so, Albert." 
 
Alobar smiled. He enjoyed being called "Albert." It reminded him of all the nights he spent cleaning up after Einstein. 
Looking back, it was amazing how few male friends he had had in his lifetime. Some men make more friends in a day than Alobar had made in a thousand years. There was Pan, of course, if one could describe their odd association as friendship. There had been the shaman, but they'd met only once. Fosco, the Tibetan artist, might be included, although Fosco had been often withdrawn and enigmatic, and as for Wiggs Dannyboy, well, he just wasn't sure about Dannyboy. Albert Einstein, on the other hand, was a pal. 
Sort of a pal. They never went bowling together or guzzled beer in a bar, but Einstein had lent him money, as a true friend will do, and they'd had some wonderful talks. If you and another guy know things about each other that nobody else knows, and you keep those things confidential, then you and the guy must be pals. 
Only a month or two before, while leafing through a magazine in the day room, Alobar had chanced upon an article that began, "When Albert Einstein died in Princeton Hospital at 1:15 on the morning of April 18, 1955, having mumbled his last words in German to a night nurse who knew no German ..." He couldn't help but laugh. The magazine implied that Einstein's last words were tragically lost to history. Alobar conceded that such might be the case. But he knew what Einstein's last words were. 
Did they imagine that the dying Einstein suddenly pulled himself up in bed and uttered, "E equals MC cubed"? 
Did they think that-he had mumbled, "Der perfekt Tako"? 
On numerous occasions during the past three centuries, Alobar had come to the brink of suicide, driven there not by despair, or even boredom, but by the longing for reunion with Kudra and the wish to prove incorrect her accusation 
   
that longevity for longevity's sake was for him a limiting obsession. To some degree, Kudra's charge must have been accurate, because he never lowered the shade. He would decide that he was finally ready to die, or, at least, to dematerialize, for he had no intention of leaving his dear body behind to be poked at by policemen and lied over by priests, but always something would come up at the last minute to change his mind. 
Alobar was fairly certain that he could manage a dematerialization. He was uncertain that he could rematerialize. Since Kudra had failed to reappear, he supposed that it must be impossible. His ego prevented him, except in rare moments of self-doubt, from believing that Kudra had remained on the Other Side by choice. 
In any case, Alobar would decide to board the spook express at last, and he'd dust off his antique lab equipment in order to whip up some K23. He had to be reeking of the perfume when he reached the Other Side, he reasoned, to insure that Kudra would recognize him. So, he'd proceed to assemble the ingredients, which was not quite as easy as making cherry pie, since citron was scarce, quality jasmine oil scarcer, and beet pollen scarcer yet (it was available only a few weeks out of the year, and then in widely scattered locations). Invariably, before he had his aromatics together, he'd find a reason to postpone the journey. 
That was exactly what had happened the last time, back in 1953. It was the Eisenhower Years and things were slow. The Eisenhower Years were so slow that if they fell off a cliff they'd only be going ten miles an hour. The Eisenhower Years were a slow boat to Abilene, and it looked as if it would be many a crewcut moon before America turned lively again. 
For nearly half a century, Alobar had owned and operated a spa outside Livingston, Montana. This enterprise afforded him daily access to mineral springs. Hot baths, remember, are part of the immortalist process. In rural Montana, he also was convenient to the disintegrated spirit of Pan, which roamed the Wild West in the company of the disintegrated spirit of Coyote. Occasionally, Pan and Coyote would blow by (for they were like the winds), stirring things up (for Coyote was an agent of mischief) and causing spa guests to clamp towels against their faces (for Pan still stank to the stars). 
It had been quite a while since Pan had come to call, however. If the Eisenhower Years bored Alobar, imagine what they did to Pan. If anything could finish Pan off, it was the vibration of all those self-righteous Eisenhower puritans shuffling canasta decks and defense contracts. This was no time for the strong of heart. If Alobar was ever going to take the step, if he was ever going to kick the longevity habit and rejoin his beloved Kudra (or Wren, or Kudra and Wren: who knew how heavenly the Other Side might really be?), 1953 was opportune. 
Moreover, while he had arrived in Montana with his hair dyed ebony, gradually allowing it, over the decades, to return to its natural salt-and-pepper (he had learned a few tricks in his millennium), fifty whole years had passed, and curiosity was rising among neighboring ranchers. The same old problem alas, that back around 1031 had ejected him from Constantinople just ahead of a mob. It was time to move along. 
So, Alobar sent away to New York for citron and jasmine, and, from inquiries, pinpointed where Minnesota beet fields would be ripening in a matter of weeks. He had never actually concocted a single drop of K23 since the original batch, but he was confident that he could reproduce it. 
Ah, but then, a fortnight before he was to set off for Minnesota to procure the beet pollen, an outhouse copy of Readers Digest called his attention to the news that geneticists at Princeton University seemed to be on the verge of discoveries that could more than double human life span. Toward the end of the article one of the scientists was quoted as saying that if the experiments panned out, he imagined that the White House would assume direct control, assuring America's leaders primary access. Federal grants, after all, were funding much of the research. 
Small wonder that Alobar was alarmed. Consider the prospect of Ike, John Foster Dulles, and Dick Nixon indefinitely preserved. Consider the prospect of the Eisenhower Years going on forever. 
Such frightening thoughts might have been by themselves enough to motivate him. However, it was the promise that he had made to Lalo the nymph nine hundred years earlier that caused Alobar to cancel his trip to the beet fields, sell his spa, desert his current mistress, and head for Princeton to become Einstein's janitor. 

"Someday," Lalo had said, "there wilt be men who seek to defeat death by intelligence alone." She warned that huge evil would result if those men should attain immortality, or rather, "false immortality," since true immortality requires advancement of heart and soul as well as mind. 
Were the Princeton geneticists the false immortalists of whom Lalo had prophesied? To find out, Alobar wrangled a job as assistant custodian at the Institute for Advanced Study, where the geneticists had their offices and lab. Assigned originally to boiler room duties, Alobar had to bribe the chief custodian to be allowed to clean the wing in which the geneticists worked. Upon finding documents that proved White House and Pentagon interest in the experiments, Alobar began to throw monkey wrenches at the delicate machinery. He flicked drops of dirty mop water into culture dishes, waxed the guinea pig's protein pellets, unplugged incubators, and altered figures on charts. Once he fed a prize long-lived white rat one of Einstein's cigar butts. The rat was kaput by morning. 
Professor Einstein's office was down the hall from the genetics area. It was a mess. And not just a common two-plus-two-equals-four mess. Einstein's office was a genius equation mess. (A disarray in which Priscilla might have felt at home.) 
Books, reports, binders, sheaves, scrolls, periodicals, letters, and uncashed checks were piled, layers deep, all over the floor and furniture, making it virtually impossible to sweep or dust. It was especially frustrating because the place sorely needed a sweeping. In amongst the piles of paper were strewn orange peels, banana skins, Dixie cups, chalk sticks, pencil nubs, sweater lint, violin strings, and drifts of cigar ash (the snows of El Producto). To make matters worse, Einstein himself was usually in the office until well past midnight, and should so much as a sheet of paper be disturbed, he became agitated. 
Alobar began postponing the cleaning of Einstein's office to the very end of his shift, but still the professor was there, 2:00 A.M., slumped in his chair, looking like a musical teddy bear with its springs and stuffing flying out. By and by, 
 
Einstein confessed that he waited for Alobar so that the two of them might talk. His wife mothered him, he complained, and denied him his cigars. Mrs. Einstein thought that a pipe was more dignified. Her favorite topic of conversation was bowel productivity. 
They had some fine discussions, Alobar and Einstein. The special theory of relativity, the general theory of relativity, the unified field theory; they were what Einstein was famous for, but they were not his best work, he said. Einstein told Alobar that he had thought of many more wonderful things than relativity, but he wasn't going to let "der kats out of der bag" because he didn't trust politicians to put his ideas to moral uses. 
Upon hearing some of the unpublished theories, Alobar agreed that they were wonderful, if difficult, and had best be saved for a more enlightened age. Made bold by Einstein's revelations, the janitor told the professor some secrets of his own. 
Whether Einstein actually believed the janitor's stories is questionable, but he relished them. He was fascinated by Alobar's views on life and death. His depression was relieved by Alobar's cheerful nature and strongly regal bearing. When Alobar disclosed, cheerfully, that his financial nose was in the mud, Einstein dropped to his knees, rummaged in his papers until he found a royalty check from The Physical Review, and promptly endorsed it to his late-night friend. 
The reason Alobar was short of cash was because he was being blackmailed. The chief custodian, suspicious of the new janitor from the onset, eventually had caught him tampering with experiments in the genetics lab. Soon he had extorted from him every penny of the proceeds from the spa sale and was demanding the bulk of his salary. It was expensive business, keeping a promise to a nymph. 
That the longevity experiments at Princeton's Institute for Advanced Study were terminated in 1956 probably was due as much to faulty procedures on the part of the geneticists as to Alobar's sabotage. In trying to increase human life span by building virus-resistant cells in rodents and dogs, the scientists were barking up the wrong chromosome. In any event, by the time the custodian turned in Alobar to the police, nobody cared very much about the experiments. Alobar was 
 
questioned and released. He lost his job, of course. It was just as well. His buddy was dead. 
Einstein's office was now a museum. It was very clean and very tidy. There was a rack of pipes on his desk. 
Alobar hadn't been allowed to visit Albert in the hospital. He was hanging around the waiting room, however, when word came that the professor had refused surgery for the rupturing aorta that was wiping his personal equation off the blackboard of life. "It is tasteless to prolong life artificially," Einstein had told his physicians. 
Alobar's reaction was summed up ten years later by a British fashion designer named Mary Quant, who, in a different context, announced, "Good taste is death. Vulgarity is life." 
Saddened by Albert's decision, disappointed that his own philosophy had had no stronger influence upon his friend, Alobar returned to the institute to mop and mope. The following week, after the funeral (which Alobar, on principle, refused to attend), he heard a local radio interview in which the nurse who had ministered to Einstein on his deathbed attempted to recreate the German that the patient had mumbled with his last breath. 
Alobar seized his broom and danced it around the boiler room. His laughter echoed through the heat ducts of the Institute for Advanced Study. No wonder they didn't understand Einstein's last words! Einstein's last words weren't in German at all. Einstein's last words were in the language of an obscure and long- lost Bohemian tribe, and had been taught to him by Alobar. 
Einstein's last words were, "Erleichda, erleichda." 
Memories of Einstein, and of his own first (but, alas, not last) exploits as a science saboteur, distracted the prisoner "Albert Barr," permitting him to escape momentarily from 
the two cells in which he was locked; the chamber of steel, cold and 
  
indestructible; the chamber of flesh, feverish and deteriorating. 
The instant the reminiscence faded, the symptoms of deterioration took over, grabbing the limelight like an insecure celebrity, drowning out, with Welkian schmaltz, the shy snores of embezzlers, the out-of-sync rasps of homicidal maniacs, the nocturnal whimpers of lifelong bullyboys. The noise of aging came from deep inside him, and although it was relatively soft, it had an urgency that the distant country/western of the guards' radio did not. 
More disturbing was the odor. What chemical evil could be working in his tissues to cause them to smell like the bottom drawer in a maiden aunt's dresser? 
At that moment, Alobar became aware of a new symptom. His ears had started to burn. Of itself, it wasn't a ruinous sensation, and he recalled the folk wisdom that attributed ear heat to gossip. If your ears burned, it meant that someone was talking about you. That would be okay, Alobar thought, especially if it were the parole board. But at this saw-log hour of the morning, who on Earth could possibly be talking about him? 
Who, indeed? 
"A thousand years old," said Priscilla. "No-oo! He was feeding you a whopper." 
"Your man here is a scientist," said Wiggs. "I am trained in skepticism. I'm not the chap to be swallowin' whoppers." 
"Ha! I've heard from informed sources that you believe in fairies." Wiggs reddened slightly. "Tis an entirely different matter," he said. "Maybe not." 
"Myths explain the world." He cleared his throat in a pedagogic manner. "Both the psychic and physical world. The world past, present, and-future. When your ancient Celts spoke o' fairies, they were describin' the photon. Not the unintelligent pulse o' light that is the basis, the creator, o' all 
 
matter, but the pulse o' light charged with consciousness, the new photon that is evolvin' out o' matter. Faith, don't be gettin' me started on quantum physics and the wisdom o' the Irish. Alobar, for all his age, was no bloody fairy." 
"You know, your brogue is getting worse by the minute." 
" "Tis the drinkin'. And I shouldn't be drinkin'. Alcohol runs counter to me immortalist aspirations." 
Priscilla looked at her own glass of spirits. She thought of Ricki, waiting— perhaps worrying—at her apartment. "I shouldn't have anymore, either. Here, I'm gonna go in the kitchen and get us some ice water." 
"Arraugh!" Wiggs grabbed his collar as if he were strangling. "Water?" He rolled off the couch, still clutching his throat. "Water! Of all the liquids on Earth, the only one chosen for scrubbin' and flushin'. The liquid they rinse the baby's nappies in, the fluid that floods the gutters o' this cloud-squeezer town; a single drop o water discolors a glass of Irish, and you, false friend, are wantin' me to pour this, abrasive substance into me defenseless body!" 
Priscilla giggled, which delighted him. His heart thought it was an electric toaster, set for "tan." In her heart, the yeast was rising. 
"Okay, okay, no water. What can I get you to replace the booze?" 
Dr. Dannyboy straightened his tie and his eye patch, and reoccupied his seat on the sofa. The only illumination in the room was from the fireplace. It lent a cheerful glint to the cannibal cutlery above the mantel. "Another nice wet kiss would be fillin' the bill," he said quietly. 
Pushing aside anxiety about Ricki and curiosity about beets, she slid into his arms. 
Across the continent, near Boston, in a cell inside Concord State Prison, Alobar's ears abruptly ceased burning. 
"Ahh, I do love zippers. Zippers remind me o' crocodiles, lobsters, and Aztec serpents. I wish me tweeds had more than the single fly. . . . Zippers are primal 
 
and modern at the very same time. On the one hand, your zipper is primitive and reptilian, on the other, mechanical and slick. A zipper is where the Industrial Revolution meets the Cobra Cult, don't you think? Ahh. Little alligators of ecstasy, that's what zippers are. Sexy, too. Now your button, a button is prim and persnickety. There's somethin' Victorian about a row o' buttons. But a zipper, why a zipper is the very snake at the gate of Eden, waitin' to escort a true believer into the Garden. Faith, I should be sewin' more zippers into me garments, for I have many erogenous zones that require speedy access. Mmm, old zipper creeper, hanging head down like the carcass of a lizard; the phantom viper that we shun in daytime and communicate with at night." 
"Here, let me help you with that." 
Throughout Dr. Dannyboy's monologue, he had been trying to unzip Pris's dress, to part the teeth of the Talon that ran down the length of her green knit back; trying to maneuver it cooly, unobtrusively, as if Pris, suddenly noticing her dress falling away, would regard it as a spontaneous act of nature, organic and ordained, but he couldn't budge the damn thing, though he tugged until sweat burst out on his brow, and finally, she said . . . 
"Here, let me help you with that." 
And with one smooth stroke, she separated the interlocking tracks, the 'gator yawned, and, lo, there she sat in her underwear. 
Her bra was rust-stained and more than a size too big. Is that a brassiere or a flotation device? Wiggs wondered. 
At least it was a cinch to remove. He simply pulled it over her head without unhooking it, catching her breasts as they tumbled out, like croquet balls from a canvas bag. They were as smooth as peeled onions and perfectly pinked. He squeezed one, nuzzled the other. The pink did not lick off. 
There was a run in the seat of her nylon panties. Neither of them seemed to notice. His hand passed over the run like a streetsweeper passing over a skid mark, maintaining momentum, registering nothing. The longest finger on his left hand curled like a celery stalk and dipped into the bowl of her buttocks, a bowl 
 
in which metaphors were easily mixed. 
"Sweet Jesus, 'tis wonderful you feel!" 
"Wiggs . . . you're still dressed for dinner." 
In a minute he was wearing nothing but his eye patch. 
"You feel wonderful, baby," he said, fingering her again. He had dropped his brogue with his shorts. 
Priscilla had forgotten how it was with older men. The last man with whom she had lain was a twenty-year-old dishwasher from El Papa Muerta. During a single evening, he had made love to her four times—for three minutes each time. Perhaps it is noteworthy, she thought, that the performance of a young man in bed is roughly the same length as a rock song on AM radio. 
"I ... had . . . ummm . . . forgotten . . . how ... it is . . . . with . . . older . . . men." 
That must have been the wrong thing to say. Wiggs paused in midstroke. "Age," he grumbled. "There are only two ages. Alive and dead. If your man is dead, he should go lie down somewhere and get out o' the way. But if it is alive he is . . ." 
He completed the stroke, then paused again. Oh, no, thought Priscilla. Surely he isn't going to get pedantic at a time like this? 
Her worry was soon abated, for although Wiggs cleared his throat and tapped his patch with his finger, a clear signal that he was on the verge of expounding, he became distracted by the wiggly thrust of her pelvis, and gradually, after mumbling something about senility being wasted on the old, and something else about never having met an adult who really liked him, he fell silent, except for the occasional sweet grunt, and gave full attention to the further stoking of the hot box in which he found himself. 
"Yes, God, yes," moaned Pris. This was the way Effecto had loved her: muscular and tender, relaxed and confident, carefully modulating rhythm and tempo, prying her apart with sweet determination, kissing her adoringly all the while; a far cry from those young guys who were either trying to score touchdowns in 
 
bed or else practicing to join the tank corps. "Daddy!" squealed Pris. "Daddy?" asked Wiggs. "Uh, no, Danny," said Pris. "Dannyboy." "Your man," said Wiggs. 
Effecto had played Priscilla like an accordion. Wiggs worked her as if she were an archaeological dig: spading, sifting, dusting, cataloging. Now, lying in a puddle on the sofa, she felt like she was ready to be shipped to the British Museum. Accompanied by a crate of late twentieth-century come shards. 
Wiggs covered her with a Sepik war blanket and lay down beside her. A fresh Pres-to-log sputtered in the fireplace, and rain tapped messages in Morse code against the window-panes. "You can't stay indoors forever," and "There's plenty more where this came from" was what the rain was sending. 
"Did you invite me here to seduce me?" asked Pris. She didn't care, at that point, she was merely curious. She caressed his flaccid shillelagh, wondering if Ricki would ever forgive her; wondering, too, if she would have felt half this good after sex with Ricki. 
"I wish I could say yes, but the truth is, darlin', I wasn't that smart. This was an unexpected bonus." 
"Then why did you invite me?" "Smell," said Wiggs. "I beg your pardon." 
"Now don't be takin' offense. Personally, you smell dainty as a lamb." Dr. Dannyboy ducked his head beneath the blanket and took a vigorous whiff. "They can have their loaf o' warm bread, their new-mown hay. Nothin' beats the smell of a lassie freshly laid." 
"Hey ..." 
 
"Again, no offense." He surfaced, and kissed her with earnest affection. "See here, Priscilla, I have an interest in smell. That is, I have an interest in the evolution o' consciousness. Smell is the only sense to communicate directly with the neocortex. It bypasses the thalamus and the other middlemen and goes direct. Smell is the language the brain 
speaks. Hunger, thirst, aggression, fear, lust: your brain interprets these urges with a vocabulary o' smell. The neocortex speaks this language, and if we can learn to speak it, why we may be able to manipulate the cortex through the nose " 
"For what?" 
"For expeditin' the evolution o' consciousness." 
"For what?" 
"So's we can be happy and live a long, long time and not be bloody blowin' each other to bits." 
"You're going to disappoint a lot of generals." "Worse. It could mean the end o' Monday Night Football." 
"Well, fuck the Dallas Cowboys if they can't take a joke. But, Wiggs, wait a minute. What does any of this have to do with me?" 
"You make perfume, don't you, darlin'?" 
Priscilla raised herself on one elbow. "Uh, yeah, sort of. How did you know that?" 
"I've learned a lot about perfumers since I met Alobar." "Alobar. The guy in prison." "Him." "The janitor." 
"And former king." 
"Who's a thousand years old." "Yes." 
She sat completely upright. "This is the nuttiest thing I've ever heard. I'm getting more confused by the minute. ..." She sounded genuinely distressed. Wiggs gripped her sticky thigh. 
" Tis a long story." 
"I don't care. And cut the brogue, please. You talked like an American when we were making love." 
"Sure and 'twas because your wild little wooky sobered me up. Now the grape has got hold o' me tongue again." 
"All right, fine, I don't care if you talk like Donald Duck. Just tell the story." "Should I start at the beginning?" "If that's not too traditional." "But what about your date?" 
"You've already eaten her share." 
"Her?" 
"Never mind. Talk to me. Now." "I'll start with the sixties." "Fine. You were probably more interesting then. I understand everybody was." "I'll start with the seventies." "I like you, Wiggs." "Sure and I like you, too." He cleared his throat and, tapping his patch with a wooky-scented knuckle, 
commenced to pin a tail on the beet. 
By then, it was that part of the day that is officially morning but which any dunce can see is purest night. The streets of Seattle were as wet and greeny black as freshly printed currency. Despite the hour and the weather, people were lined up outside the Last Laugh Foundation as if the Last Laugh Foundation were a radio station giving away rock stars to pubescent girls. Some of the people looked at Ricki's tea strainer of a car as it ever so slowly rattled by. Others persisted in gazing expectantly at the darkened mansion. 
Squint as she might, Ricki could detect not a glimmer in the house. She bit her lip to keep from crying. "It's two-thirty," she said sorrowfully, as if "two-thirty" were the name of a fatal disease. "It's two-thirty in the son-of-a-bitching morning." 
Were Ricki concerned with precise expression, and she was not, she might have added, "here," for while it was indeed, two-thirty in Seattle, in Massachusetts it was half past five, a time of night that could lay some legitimate claim to morning, and a cold crack of oyster light was beginning to separate the sky from the Atlantic. Still awake, Alobar lay upon his prison cot, practicing Bandaloop breath. 
That's what he called it, what he and Kudra had called it all those years: Bandaloop breath. Of course, there was an absolute lack of evidence that the Bandaloop ever breathed in that manner. For that matter, there was precious little evidence that the Bandaloop ever-existed. Absence of proof failed to faze Alobar, however, since, thanks to the Bandaloop, he had witnessed three hundred and eighty-five thousand, eight hundred and six sunrises in his life, and judging from the milky molluscan glow seeping through the barred window, was about to witness yet another. 
Moreover, if he concentrated on his breathing, and the parole board soon ruled in his favor, he might go on witnessing sunrises indefinitely, despite the aging that worked in him now like naphthous bees in a leathery hive. That was his hope, although, considering his prospects, why he should want to go on—and on and on and on—was a question he could not easily answer. One thing was certain, he didn't intend to risk the Other Side without a splash of K23, and he was starting 
 
to wonder if he shouldn't have gone ahead and given Wiggs Dannyboy the formula for it. Dr. Dannyboy could have had some made and smuggled it in to him. His intense secrecy about K23, his long-standing refusal to tap its commercial potential, was a bit irrational, he must admit. But, then, were he a rational man, he would have been dead a thousand years. Ho. 
Joints creaking like the lines of a storm-tossed ship, Alobaf arose and hobbled to the window. He looked for his old benefactor, the morning star, but the window was tiny, and the only celestial light in the slice of sky available to his scrutiny was a blinking satellite circling the Earth. "The world is round-o, round-o," he started to sing, but embarrassment shut him up. "If the parole board doesn't act soon, I'll send Dannyboy the formula," he promised. 
Alobar wasn't the only person thinking about a secret formula that morning (or night). Distracted by first one thing and then the other, Wiggs and Priscilla hadn't gotten around to it yet, but in New Orleans—time: four-thirty—Madame Devalier lay in her canopied bed, bejeweled hands crossed upon the vault of her belly, pondering a possible bottom note, mixing dozens, scores of ingredients in her mind's nose, not ever imagining how simple it could be; and not imagining, either, that in a cheap motel near the Seattle-Tacoma airport, where it was, yes, two-thirty, thank you, Ricki, V'lu Jackson slept with the answer—a drop or two of the answer—in an ancient bottle beneath her vinyl-wrapped, foam rubber pillow; and, of course, neither of them, Madame, awake, formulating, nor V'lu, dreaming, fist pressed against lonesome labia, could imagine that before they lay abed again, Bingo Pajama would be shot at their feet and that his little swarm of bees, masterless, would be frightening New Orleans half to ... 
. . . death. Arrgh! How Wiggs Dannyboy hated that word. 
His reaction to "death" was neither terror nor resignation, avoidance nor morbid longing, shock nor denial, but, rather, fury. Controlled fury. Challenge, if you please. Combat. Wiggs was at war with death and had vowed never to surrender. 
The declaration of war had been drawn up while he was in Concord State Prison. He had been transferred to Concord from a federal penitentiary in the Midwest at his own request after the incident in which a guard had poked out his right eye with a matchstick. 
 
In the investigation that followed the blinding, it was revealed that Dr. Dannyboy had been subjected to almost continuous physical and mental harassment during his months in federal custody. The media, which, while it may have condemned Dannyboy's life-style and philosophy, had always found him good copy, fanned the story into a scandal. In addition, there was the threat of a multi-million-dollar lawsuit. The government was hardly in a position to deny the request for transfer. 
At Concord, Wiggs was near friends, mavericks who had managed to remain on the Harvard faculty or who had entered one or another of the "New Age" businesses that flourished in Cambridge and Boston. His pals kept him supplied with books from the university library and with the latest journals and papers in his fields of interest: anthropology, ethnobotany, mythology, and neuropharmacology. They paid him gossipy visits, monitored his health, and delivered his occasional contributions to The Psychedelic Review. They smuggled out the half-frozen dinner roll into which he had freshly ejaculated, rushing it to the parking lot where his ovulating wife (who was eventually to jilt him for a more available partner) received it and immediately did with it what she had to do: the origins of Huxley Anne. 
It was, despite the many difficulties of prison life, a reasonably productive and stimulating period. There was plenty of time for contemplation, however, and Dr. Dannyboy used it to review what had been accomplished in the sixties, by himself and like-minded others. Then, he placed those accomplishments within the context of history, not merely the official history, with its emphasis on politics and economics, or the more pertinent history of the various ways that we have lived our daily lives since we first crawled out of the ooze or swung down from the foliage, but also the higher, more complex history of how our thought patterns, our nervous systems, our spiritual selfhoods have developed and changed. 
This much Wiggs concluded: illumination, like it or not, is an elitist condition; in every era and in almost every area, there have resided tiny minorities of enlightened individuals, living their lives upon the threshold, at the gateway of the next evolutionary phase, a phase whose actualization is probably still hundreds of years down the line. In certain key periods of history, one or another of these elitist minorities has become sufficiently large and resonant to affect the culture as a whole, thereby laying a significant patch of brick in the evolutionary road. He thought of the age of Akhenaton in ancient Egypt, the reign of 
Zoroaster in Persia, the golden ages of Greece and Islam, the several great periods of Chinese culture, and the European Renaissance. ("The Celts would have produced a major culture, too," he told Priscilla, "if the Church hadn't got hold o' them first.") Something similar was brewing in America in the years 1964 to 1971. 
Maybe it was sentimental, if not actually stupid, to romanticize the sixties as an embryonic golden age, Wiggs admitted. Certainly, this fetal age of enlightenment aborted. Nevertheless, the sixties were special; not only did they differ from the twenties, the fifties, the seventies, etc., they were superior to them. Like the Arthurian years at Camelot, the sixties constituted a breakthrough, a fleeting moment of glory, a time when a significant little chunk of humanity briefly realized its moral potential and flirted with its neurological destiny, a collective spiritual awakening that flared brilliantly until the barbaric and mediocre impulses of the species drew tight once more the curtains of darkness. 
Moreover, Wiggs believed that the American womb eventually would bear fruit. The United States was the logical location of the next enlightened civilization. And since the sixties phenomena had at least prepared the soil—many of the individuals who had successfully mutated during the sixties were carrying on, out of view of the public eye—the next flowering was probably no more than a decade or two away. 
Even though, in social terms, the sixties had failed, in evolutionary terms they were a landmark, a milestone, and Wiggs was proud that he had been able to lend a helping hand in ushering in that dizzy period of transcendence and awareness (transcendence of obsolete value systems, awareness of the enormity and richness of inner reality). Still, he was dissatisfied. Anxious. Unhappy. It wasn't prison or the blinding that was bothering him, they were small sacrifices to make for what had been accomplished. It was something else, something that had haunted him since boyhood, undermining his every triumph, dulling his ecstasies, amplifying his agonies, mocking his optimism, spitting in his ice cream. 
It was, he came gradually to realize, the specter of death. 
 
If a person leads an "active" life, as Wiggs had, if a person has goals, ideals, a cause to fight for, then that person is distracted, temporarily, from paying a whole lot of attention to the heavy scimitar that hangs by a mouse hair just above his or her head. We, each of us, have a ticket to ride, and if the trip be interesting (if it's dull, we have only ourselves to blame), then we relish the landscape (how quickly it whizzes by!), interact with our fellow travelers, pay frequent visits to the washrooms and concession stands, and hardly ever hold up the ticket to the light where we can read its plainly stated destination: The Abyss. 
Yet, ignore it though we might in our daily toss and tussle, the fact of our impending death is always there, just behind the draperies, or, more accurately, inside our sock, like a burr that we can never quite extract. If one has a religious life, one can rationalize one's slide into the abyss; if one has a sense of humor (and a sense of humor, properly developed, is superior to any religion so far devised), one can minimalize it through irony and wit. Ah, but the specter is there, night and day, day in and day out, coloring with its chalk of gray almost everything we do. And a lot of what we do is done, subconsciously, indirectly, to avoid the thought of death, or to make ourselves so unexpendable through our accomplishments that death will hesitate to take us, or, when the scimitar finally fells, to insure that we "live on" in the memory of the lucky ones still kicking. 
Wiggs wasn't buying that "live on in memories" number. He had typed himself a small footnote in academic and social history. More important, he had, in his opinion, contributed to the evolution of consciousness in his time. But that sort of immortality was a hollow prize. If what he had accomplished in his "electronic shaman" days in the sixties was destined to have an impact on the future, he wanted to be around to enjoy it. 
Not that he hadn't enjoyed himself already. He'd had more fun than an electric eel in a public bath, and, prison or no prison, eye patch or no eye patch, doom or no doom, he was confident the joy wasn't over yet. (As Wiggs related this sentiment to Priscilla, he patted her bare bottom for emphasis.) What's more, he didn't classify himself as a greedy fellow. It was simply that aging was so rapid and death so final that ultimately they robbed life of any meaning. 
PHYSICAL PLEASURE SCIENTIFIC DISCOVERY 
ARTISTIC MASTERPIECES SOCIAL IMPROVEMENT TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATIONS even 
LOVING RELATIONSHIPS 
or even 
SPIRITUAL ECSTASY 
Could any or all of these balance the dark weight? The certainty that the most gifted, the most beautiful, the most wise, the most virtuous of us must grow old and die? 
"It was then and there, wallowin' on me cot in Concord Prison, that I decided to do somethin' about it," Wiggs said. 
"Because every bloody thing else is secondary to the creepin' chill o' personal extinction. 
"Death is the fly in everybody's ointment. "Death has never been acceptable to humanity, and 'tis less so today. 
"To the religious chap, I say, if God loves ye, he wouldn't sicken ye and then murder ye. To the rational fellow, and tp the hedonist, as well, L say, death makes a mockery of your logic and your pleasure, alike. 
"Folks can never be truly happy, or truly free, or even truly sane as long as they got to be expectin' the vigor to decline and the swatter to fall. 
"So, darlin', I pushed aside everything else, cleared me jail cell o' professional journals and scholarly books and, yes, girlie magazines, too, although Alobar was to teach me that was a mistake, and I vowed to dedicate me every erg o' 
 
energy to this modest pursuit: the eradication o' death." 
Priscilla looked at him with respectful disbelief. "Well, frankly," she said, "I've got to classify that under the label of beating the old head against the old brick wall." 
"Indeed?" 
"Why, yes, Wiggs. Of course. Everything that's alive was born, and everything that was born has got to die. There's no getting around it. It's the law of the universe." 
Nude though he was, Dr. Dannyboy drew himself up like a bank president. He tapped his patch portentiously, like a master of ceremonies tapping a microphone. Then, in a surprisingly soft and even tone, he said: 
"The universe does not have laws. "It has habits. "And habits can be broken." 
Above Seattle, the many-buttocked sky continued to grind. It taxed the wipers, ragged and lame, that limped, complaining every step of the way, back and forth across Ricki's windshield; first plangent, then lambent, then plangent again, it addressed the tarpaper roof of V'lu's motel, adding an extra dimension to her dreams; it stacked its liquid telegrams against the windowpanes of the Last Laugh Foundation. 
Ricki pulled the VW into the driveway of her duplex, killed the engine (a mercy killing), and dashed for her door. She ran not to minimize rain-soak but in order to catch the ring of the telephone should Pris be on the line. 
A horned man with the haunches of a goat forced his way into V'lu's dream. The dreamscape was lit by a yellow flame, and there was a suck suck sound as the creature, advancing on her, pulled his hooves in and out of soupy mud. V'lu was awakened by the pounding of her own heart. She was surprised and disturbed to find her pussy quite wet. Realizing that the man in the dream and the man on the 
 
bottle were the same, she wisely removed the bottle from under her pillow and buried it beneath the neatly folded clothes in her suitcase. In the darkness, tinted slightly by a seepage of NO VACANCY neon, she walked to the window. Although it was permanently sealed, through it she could smell the rain. Seattle rain smelled different from New Orleans rain, thought V'lu. She was right. New Orleans rain smelled of sulfur and hibiscus, trumpet metal, thunder, and sweat. Seattle rain, the widespread rain of the Great Northwest, smelled of green ice and sumi ink, of geology and silence and minnow breath. 
Except to the extent that it enhanced the coziness of their fireside chat, Priscilla and Wiggs were oblivious to the rain. It was simply there in the background, like the feeble fire in the grate. In the foreground were hormones, questions, and wild ideas. 
Priscilla was willing to accept Dr. Dannyboy's notion that mortality was the principal source of misery for the human race. She might, moreover, sympathize with his painful conclusion that his previous philosophy had been a sham because it had been friendly to death, accommodating it, making excuses for it, even celebrating our vulnerability to it. But his apparently sincere conviction that he could snatch the mouse hair and remove the scimitar struck her as the kind of high-pitched delusion that can shatter a man's mind like a cut-glass punching bag. 
"Wiggs," she said, "all those strange drugs you took, jungle berries and Amazon sap and stuff, not to mention regular old LSD, do you think they might have, you know, physically, uh, barbecued your brain?" 
"Oh, no, darlin', none o' that. Sure and they destroyed some cells, no doubt about it, but 'twas for the good. If you want your tree to produce plenty o' fruit, you've got to cut it back from time to time. Same thing with your neural cells. Some people might call it brain damage. I call it prunin'." 
At that, even the rain backed away. 
Things were quiet for a while, what with the slack in the weather and a conversational pause. After a bit, Wiggs took her nipple in his lips, applying a rubbery, rolling pressure, like Captain Queeg worrying those steel peas in his 
 
fingers during the Caine Mutiny Court Martial. Boingl The little pink pea stiffened with pleasure, much as an aged veteran will sometimes stiffen with patriotism. Pris was beginning to experience a resurgence of powerful urges in her loins when all at once there was a thumping noise from the floor above them. 
"What's that?" she asked. Wiggs spat out the nipple. "Morgenstern. 1 hope he doesn't wake Huxley Anne ' "What's he doing up there?" "Oh, 'tis a dance that he does, a dance against dying." 
"Wiggs, what is going on in this nuthouse? I mean, you don't have a laboratory on the whole blessed premises, but you've got a Nobel chemist dancing with himself at three in the morning—or is he dancing with a full-grown kangaroo? It sounds like it—and do you actually believe you're going to live forever? Tell me you don't believe it. Please." 
"I don't believe it." "You don't?" She sounded relieved. "No, I don't believe that Wiggs Dannyboy will be livin' 
forever, but future generations will, Huxley Anne quite likely will, and even so, I expect to outlast me detractors. I could see me hundred-and-twentieth birthday, I could easily." 
"But how? And why? Is this some sort of grandiose and rococo midlife crisis? Are you that afraid of getting old? Aging is the most natural thing in the world." 
He snorted. "Sure and there's where you're bloody mistaken, me darlin'. There's where you're as wrong as garters on a nun." He snorted again, and his knuckle began rapping at his eye patch like a mongoloid woodpecker drilling for worms in a poker chip. "Agin" is a disease. Maybe disease is natural, but health is natural, too, and a hell of a heap more desirable. Rust is natural, wouldn't you say? But rust can be prevented. And if you don't be preventin' it, it will ruin your machinery. Tis the same with agin'. Your man ages because he lets his body rust." 
"Rust? I don't—" 
"I'm talkin' about the degeneration o' cells. I'm talkin' about the gumming up o' cells with superoxide free radicals and toxins, I'm talkin' about the gradual breakdown o' healthy cell reproduction due to progressive deterioration o' nucleic acids. 'Tis all a form o' rustin'." 
"And it can be prevented?" 
"It can." 
"Why don't doctors know about it then?" 
"You might as well ask why didn't mariners in the Middle Ages know the world was round?" 
"A few did." 
"Sure and a few doctors today know the truth of agin'." He paused, gazing into the fire. Eventually, he smiled and said, "Your man, Alobar, he knew the world was round way back then. And in his own fashion, he knows the truth about age." 
"Ah, yes, Alobar: the janitor who never rusts." "Well, until recently he didn't. I should be gettin' back to me story." "That's for sure." "A kiss first." "Mmm." 
At Concord, Dr. Dannyboy had cleared his cubicle of journals and papers relating to his erstwhile (and some said, alleged) profession, only to gradually replace them with material relating to gerontology, genetics, and life extension. From prison, he became privy to the latest longevity research at universities in North America, Europe, and Japan, and at private institutions such as the 
 
Bjorksten Research Foundation, Montesano Laboratories, the Menninger Clinic, and the Institute of Experimental Morphology in Soviet Georgia. Allowed one telephone call per week, he found himself, guiltily, dialing a biologist at Cornell or a gerontologist at the University of Nebraska Medical School, rather than his wife and infant daughter in nearby Boston. 
It was far from easy, keeping pace with the leading edge of some of the most esoteric science, but Dr. Dannyboy was resourceful and, despite his unfashionable address, charming. What he learned encouraged and delighted him. To be sure, it also frustrated him in the saddest way that there wasn't more effort and money behind rejuvenation research. With an immense national effort, such as the project that brought us the atomic bomb, we could add fifty years to the average life span in no time at all, he was convinced of that. Wiggs also was depressed by the fact that he was unable to benefit personally from the information that he was accumulating. Nutrition was one area, for example, where he might have done some immediately salubrious work, but, alas, there were few diets on Earth so perfect for rusting out the machinery as the starch- and-sugar blizzard, the fatty acid monsoon of prison fare. 
Wiggs began to fall prey to wide swings in mood. One day, brightened by the latest report from the UCLA Medical Center or some such place, he would be as optimistic as a newborn fly in a Mexican restaurant (an insect that might have its own vision "the perfect taco"), but the next day, crushed by the realities of the slowness of underfunded research and the deadliness of prison life, he'd be aboard that nickel submarine that is anchored at the bottom of the Black Lagoon. 
Then, late one evening, as Wiggs whispered coarse curses at the Capital of Adjectives—the moon—there was an explosion across Middlesex County at MIT, at one of the very laboratories that Wiggs was monitoring; and about three months later, as if in slow motion or delayed reaction, that blast blew into Concord Prison a new inmate named Al Barr, who would soon have incandescent beet leaves curling out of the eye of Dannyboy's periscope. 
When he first learned about the bombing of the MIT lab, Wiggs was irate. A lot of progress was being made there at MIT. Those guys had molecules jumping through hoops like poodles in a circus. While other experts in the field spoke of "the challenges presented by the mysterious and implacable process called 
 
aging," scientists in the MIT experiment talked about slowing down aging as if that feat were already possible, and they stated publicly that in the future, "society might be able to abolish death from natural causes entirely." Dannyboy admired people who could rescue themselves from modest objectives. 
He had expected the "middle-aged" janitor convicted of destroying the lab to be a fundamentalist Christian fanatic, a sexually repressed lout driven loony as an outhouse rat by charlatan evangelists and the ambiguous poetry of the Bible; a knife-nosed, tight-lipped, lost-eyed ignoramus on a self-appointed mission to punish scientists for playing God, like those peasants who bum down the mad doctor's castle at the conclusion of countless monster movies. 
When Wiggs thought of lodging with this yahoo under a common roof, the green Spanish worm of revenge began to turn in his heart. 
Therefore he was not only surprised but a bit abashed when Al Barr proved to be the most dignified prisoner in Concord. Straight of spine and sapphirine of eye, Barr appeared poised, intelligent, and master of a certain smile. Whereas Wiggs, on his good days, had a smile that snipped the tense prison air like musical scissors, Barr's smile was on the order of those stone-cut enigmas that, wired to a heroic nerve, grace the faces of classical statues. He wore an air of mystery and some very interesting scars. 
Having decided that this chap was no ordinary janitor (although it was known that he had swabbed the tiles of Boston's Turkish Bath House for years), and having become increasingly curious about the motives for the vandalism at MIT, and, further, having had little luck in generating conversation with Barr in the exercise yard (where the new inmate was occupied with a strange kind of yoga), Wiggs pulled some strings (had Wiggs been Geppetto, Pinocchio never would have left home) and arranged for Barr to become his cellmate. 
The arrangement was acceptable to Alobar, who intuited that the one-eyed Irish drug maniac would be better company than the blue-collar sister-raper with whom he had previously been bunking. Although Alobar never trusted Wiggs completely (Wiggs was open and eccentric in ways the more closed and conservative Alobar found unsettling), the pair slowly, gradually became such friends that Alobar told him his life story. All thousand years of it. Everything. 
Well, not quite everything. He told Wiggs more" than he had told Albert 
Einstein. He told him of exploits in Asia, adventures in French Canada (when Pan, half-mad from the lingering effects of K23, was still close by), which even the reader of these pages has not been told. He told him, more than once, of the perfume that was so strangely significant in . his life. But he never told him how to make the perfume. 
He told him almost how to make the perfume. He told him of the jasmine theme, the citric top note, and how he had finally discovered the great elusive and startling base note of beet. Ah, but Alobar, the fox, left something out. He said "beet" to his bunky, but he did not say "beet pollen." If he had, things would have gone differently for several people that we know. 
What's more, Alobar forced Wiggs to swear upon his mother's grave, his wife's knickers, the Book of Kells, the fairy 
hills of County Dublin,- his one good eye, and everything else that he held holy, including whiskey, vision root, the true universe, Huxley Anne's future happiness, and the Salmon That Fed on the Nine Hazel Nuts of Poetic Art, that he would never ever mention to anyone that beet was the secret ingredient in an allegedly unique and wonderful perfume. 
Therefore, Wiggs kept the word beet to himself, fine and private, despite his sensitivity to Priscilla's burning curiosity about the comet-tailed vegetable that had extended its crimson orbit into her atmosphere. He did, however, tell her the rest of Alobar's life story. Rather, he told her the highlights of Alobar's life story, for to tell the whole of it would have taken months. As it was, it took a full two hours, what with Pris getting up twice to pee, and Wiggs tiptoeing upstairs three times to check on Huxley Anne. 
By the end of the story, Dr. Morgenstern had long since ceased his immortalist jitterbug, the fire was out, the win-dowpanes nearly dry—and Priscilla was practically faint from the knowledge that she was in possession of the ancient bottle that had held the Kudra-baiting, Pan-deodorizing K23. 
   
Finding herself stunned and upended by that knowledge, like a myopic houseguest who has walked into a patio door, Pris groped for sturdy furniture with which to right herself. "But—" she said, "but if they really truly did live all that time, all those centuries ... I mean, how? It's medically impossible, isn't it? How could they have done it?" She was stalling. She wasn't prepared to talk about the bottle just yet. 
"Medically impossible 'tis not. Humanly impossible 'tis not. Can it be done? ye ask. Does koala-bear poop smell like cough drops?" 
Wiggs then went on, applying an occasional rat-a-tat to the shamrock, to explain Alobar and Kudra's program and how it was based upon the Four Elements. He took each element in turn and did a little number with it. 
AIR 
"We relate to air through the breath. Most of us don't breathe properly, which is to say, we take in too little or too much and fail to consume it efficiently. Alobar and Kudra developed a method o' breathin' whereby the inhale and exhale were connected in an uninterrupted rhythm, a continuous, circular, flywheel pattern like a serpent swallowin' its own tail. Their breathin' was deep and smooth and regular. When they brought air into their bodies, they visualized suckin' in as much energy and vitality as possible; when they expelled air, they visualized blowin' out all the staleness and flatness inside o' them. 
"Simple, 'tis true, but hardly simplistic when we understand that much o' the cellular damage that leads to tissue breakdown—agin', in other words—is caused by the accumulation in our bodies o' the toxic by-products o' metabolizin' oxygen. Superoxide free radicals, which is what these garbage molecules are called, combine with fatty acids to produce lipofuscin, which is an unstable, repulsive gunk that clogs up a cell like grease clogs a drain. The more goop ye have gummin' up your cells, the greater the strain on your metabolism, and the more taxed the metabolism the easier 'tis for still more poisons to accumulate. 
"Biological studies have proven that the animals with the longest life spans are those with the lowest rates per body weight of oxygen consumption, apparently because they dump fewer superoxide free radicals in their cells. Since we're 
 
stuck with havin' to breathe oxygen until somethin' better comes along—laughin' gas is me own nomination, but so far Nature's not seen fit to make the improvement—we need to learn to consume less of it and to burn it more" efficiently. Sure and that is precisely what your couple, oblivious though they were to the putrid perils o' lipofuscin, succeeded in doin'. 
"Proper breathin', in addition, reduces stress, and stress is a major contributor to agin', disease, and death. Alobar had been introduced to the virtues o' slow, relaxed breathin' at Samye lamasery. 'The lungs are not plow yaks," the lamas said, 'so do not drive them. Neither are they potting sheds, so keep them free of cobwebs." What the Bandaloop 'told' him, on the other hand, is impossible to translate, but 'tis obvious, 'tisn't it, darlin', that if a serpent of air is to swallow its tail—thereby perpetuatin' the circle o' life—it must be flexible, not tense." 
WATER 
"Water, too, is helpful in alleviatin' stress. How many bloomin' times have ye heard, 'Why don't ye get into a nice hot bath and relax?' Sure, but relaxation may not o' been the primary result of Alobar and Kudra's bathin' rituals, nor was the psychological benefit o' ceremonial purification the main thing, although neither should be underestimated for their effect in promotin' salubrious longevity. O' greater benefit may have been the ability'o' the bathin' ceremony to lower blood temperature. 
"Research at Purdue University, the UCLA Medical Center, and other lovely places has demonstrated that agin' can be forced into the slow lane, if not off the road altogether, by decreasin' the body's temperature. Hypothermia not only slows down the metabolic pump, allowin' it to coast a bit and refresh itself, it puts a lid on the autoimmune reactions that, contribute to an organism's deterioration. You see, darlin', our immune systems tend to be trigger-happy, especially at high or 'normal' temperatures, frequently attacking the very cells they hired on to defend—not unlike your police department or your FBI. When body temperature is depressed, the immunological cops remain in the station house playin' checkers, respondin' with their pistols, tear gas, and billy clubs only to genuinely threatenin' situations. The wear and tear this saves on the body is the difference between a cherry and a beater. 
"Now, being European, Alobar was less than an enthusiastic participant when Kudra discovered a thermal spring in one o' the caves, but gradually he came to 
appreciate the contribution o' the bath to their program. Their procedure was to soak for a half-hour or so, then withdraw to shade for a quarter-hour, repeatin' the process four or five times. The hot water caused their blood to rise to the skin surface, where, once they left the tub, it was in a position to be rapidly cooled. Ye understand? Over a period of centuries, this regular cooling down o' the blood may well have reset their internal thermostats—their hypothalamuses—so that they registered permanently two or three degrees below borin' —and debilitatin'—old ninety-eight point six. In Concord, alas, I never got a chance to take your man's temperature. 
" Tis not the whole of it, though. Our bodies, splendid though they be, are as gullible as your widow in love or your form boy on Broadway. The body will fell for the same line from the same slick-talking placebo over and over again. Fortunately, it is usually as much to our advantage to be conned by a placebo as to be blarnied by an Irishman, and that was the case when the hot tub fooled the DNA of Alobar and Kudra into reactin' as if its hosts were back in the womb again. The temperature o' womb fluid is a fairly constant one hundred degrees. That happened to be the temperature o' the cavern spring where your couple bathed in India, and they duplicated it as precisely as possible whenever they heated baths in Constantinople or Europe. Floatin' suspended in one-hundred- degree water as often as they did may have conned their DNA into believin' they were neoembyronic, thus supplyin' them with the strongest and freshest hormones and enzymes, because 'tis the nature of DNA to lavish life-enhancin' goodies upon the fetal and the young, while deprivin' us that is over twenty. 
"In the centuries when they traveled the fair circuit, they carted a barrel about with 'em, going to the trouble to fill it nightly with bathwater heated in Kudra's silver teapot. Their patience and persistence paid off. Every time the teapot whistled, your Pale Figure would lay down his scythe and mop his bony brow with a black bandanna: quittin' time on the corpse plantation, the most productive farm on Earth. Sure and Alobar stuck to his bathin' throughout his years in America." 
EARTH 
"Trees and houses and diamond mines may attach themselves like lice to this element, but ye know that soil itself is fastened to the belly. Dirt is the mother o lunch. 
"There's probably no subject with quite so many conflictin' opinions about it as there are about food, and 'tis better to swap bubble gum with a rabid bulldog than challenge a single one o' the varyin' beliefs your average human holds about nutrition, but 'tis obvious that diet must've played an important role in Alobar and Kudra's long-run performance. 
"By now, even congenital idiots shut up in cellars in Saskatchewan grain towns are aware that excess body fet promotes infirmity and shortens life expectancy, but are ye familiar with the experiments at Cornell, Montesano Laboratories, the University of California, and the Nebraska Medical School? Severely reduced calorie intake and restricted ingestion o certain amino acids by laboratory animals drastically altered the process of agin'. There was an unfortunate side effect: your animals who were deprived of amino acids suffered from weakened immune systems. However, ye might recall that Alobar and his woman were, in perfect bloomin' counterbalance, strengthenin' their immunological effectiveness by coolin' their blood. 
"Your man and his wife ate simply, but apparently they ate with gusto. They consumed small amounts o' food at a time, and let me impress somethin' upon ye, darlin', 'tis the best kept secret o' nutrition that 'tis healthier to eat small amounts o' 'bad' food than large amounts o' 'good.' 
"Alobar told me that they fasted for five days each month. Now there's nothin' like periodic fastin' for cleanin' out your pipes, and remember 'tis the accumulated death o' cells— their failure to reproduce—that ages and kills a body, and 'tis the accumulation o' toxins that kills a cell. How does your sweet little cell get polluted with toxins? From improper breathin' and improper diet. 
"One other thing about your couple's menu. Ye'll be remem-berin', o' course, that they were eaters o' beets. They were your original beetniks, ha ha. Well, 'twas only a few years past that Dr. Benjamin S. Frank discovered that beets build up the blood, stimulate the liver (which is our main organ o' purification), and supply a body with nucleic acid, nuclek acid being absolutely essential to the efficient reproduction o' youthful cell structure. Ta-da!" 
(Dr. Dannyboy felt a wee bit guilty about bringing up beets in the context of nutrition while saying nothing about their application in perfumery, a subject that, for the present, at least, was a hell of a lot more interesting to Priscilla. In the near darkness, he watched something flicker in her tired violet eyes at his 
mention of beets. Surely the poor girl didn't think that a good Samaritan was sending her beets in order to improve her diet?) 
FIRE 
"With the element o' fire, sex enters the picture." 
A little too obviously, he squeezed the cheeks of her ass. Not to be outdone, she squeezed the cheeks of his ass. She closed her eyes and tried to imagine sex entering the picture. Would sex enter the picture in a silk robe, or would it be as nude as a platter of cold cuts? Would sex enter the picture from the left or the right? Would it ring first, or would it just slide in slyly, too quick and slippery to be denied; or, would sex barge in forcibly, red-faced and green-bereted, pushing all other things aside? She was very tired . . . 
"Now we know that sex can ease stress, and we know that stress wears out the rubber on the wheel o' life. But sexual fire, like the breath of air and the bath o' water, makes other contributions to the immortalist program. 
"The human organism is designed by DNA to maintain an optimum of strength and health to sexual maturity-—and just a few years beyond. Once it has presumedly done its procre-ative duty, (and the perpetuation o' the species may be the • only thing DNA really cares about) 'tis kissed off, abandoned to steadily deteriorate. What Alobar and Kudra did was to keep their sexual fires so hotly stoked that DNA was fooled into believin' that they were just entering into sexual maturity. The fact that, despite their adolescently high hormone levels, they never actually produced a pregnancy, only contributed to the ruse. What with their womb soaks and sex spurts, their DNA couldn't get a clear fix on their age. Twas only aware that they had somethin' going, and to be safe, it had better support them. "You're yawnin." 
Priscilla stretched. "You know what time it is?" "I hope I've not been borin' ye—" "Oh, no ..." 
 
"—with me gab. But ye wanted to know if 'twas medically possible for your man to live a thousand years, and I had to make me case. Next you'll be wantin' to know how 'tis medically possible for a tongue to wag incessantly without comin' unhinged. Me ex-wife said, 'Wiggs, you talk so much that when you die they'll have to beat your tongue to death with a stick.' I resent that remark. She should've said, 'if you die." 
Pris made two small fists and rubbed her eyes. "Oh, Wiggs," she said. 
"Hey, 'tis true! Your man programs himself to die. Almost with our first breath, we're taught to expect our last. The power o' suggestion will pack you up if nothin' else does. Check the statistics sometime on how many people die at the same age that their parents died, the parent whom they most identified with. Your man Elvis Presley not only packed it up at the same age as his mum, but the very same day o' the year. The body is the servant o' the mind, and if we keep tellin' our bodies that they're probably goin' to croak, age seventy-two, then come seventy-two, croak they will. Maybe the main reason your Alobar lived on was because he believed he could. It doesn't matter how ye take care o' yourself, beets and baths and breaths and whatever, if ye think that your death is inevitable, it will be. Attitude, attitude. Tis the death wish that nails 'em, every bleedin' time." 
Wiggs actually paused for a moment, but before Pris could take advantage of the situation, he coughed up a couple of chuckles. "Funny thing," he said, "but that's where Alobar went wrong." 
"Where? Did he go wrong?" Her voice was limp and webby, as if it were being filtered through mummy wrapping. "I was under the impression that he did everything right." 
"Sure and 'twasn't right puttin' the torch to that laboratory. Landed him in Concord, where he's in a bloody fix. And 'twas completely unnecessary." 
"He gave his promise." 
"No matter. Twas in vain. Ye see, even if MIT, or any other institution, should come up with a purple elixir, some formula for indefinitely extendin' life, it wouldn't help those old boys in the White House and the Pentagon. Not a whit. The death wish is so ingrained in 'em, in every polluted cell o' their shriveled old brains, that nothin' could make a difference. They can change their diets, change 
their chemistry, but they can't change their fundamental attitudes. If ye could peek at their personal TV listings, ye'd find they've got a fiery finish scheduled on every channel. What's more, they're lookin' forward to it." 
"But why?" she asked weakly. 
" Tis their religion. To a man, your leaders believe that life on this ball o' clay is merely a test. An entrance exam for eternity. Tis the next life they're interested in, a life spent swappin' tales o' power with God, sittin' around the lobby o' the Paradise Hotel. That's why they're so dangerous, those righteous old farts. If they pushed the button and furnaced the Earth, they'd say the Earth had it comin'. Sin and immorality and all. Most o' them are secretly wishin" for it. Fry those of us who are at ease with Nature and enjoyin' ourselves, then harpsichord off to their reward. No wonder people are scared silly. Most o' them won't let it show, but they're scared. Look at the line outside this house. It grows longer week by week." 
"What do they want?" 
"Those people in line? They want somebody to tell 'em they have a chance at the i-n-g of life and not just the e-d." 
"Are you going to tell them, Wiggs?" 
He sat Upright and ran his fingers through his copse of chromium curls. "Me? I don't know. I had a fling with messiahhood once. The Caesars tried to crucify me, but they only got one eye. Ha! Still, I wonder if 'twas worth it. If you look this good to me out o' one eye, darlin', imagine how ye'd look out o' two." As if releasing a pigeon from a cage, Jie freed a sigh. The pigeon was so heavy it could barely fly. Priscilla stroked his jaw. Sensing some pity in the gesture, he brushed her hand away. 
"At any rate, 'tis too early to help the poor bastards. If I let 'em in here now, they'd only feel ripped off. Just like you, they'd be lookin' around for the laboratories. How could I make 'em understand that / am the laboratory? And not a very good one. I drink too much. And I let me daughter get chubby. 
"When I established the Last Laugh Foundation, it was to research the psychological barriers to immortality. Because what I learned from Alobar was that we have to evolve beyond our death consciousness if we expect to claim our 
divine right to life everlastin'. If we expect to be i-n-g instead of e-d. When I met Professor Morgenstern six months ago and found that he'd become a bloomin' nonstop immortalist, I invited him, at great expense, to take up residency here, not merely because o' the credibility he'd lend to the joint but because I thought he'd be settin' up a lab, and we could run some test-tube experiments out o' here as well. Oh my, and the fairies tricked me on that one! But it all fits together. Do ye know what 'tis called, that jig Morgenstern is always doin'?" 
There was no response from Priscilla, Unless "Zznnphh" may be considered a response. She was snoring. 
It was a pretty little snore. A rustling of scarabs in the mummy wrappings. Wiggs listened attentively. Most snoring is composed by Beethoven or Wagner, although a few times Wiggs had heard heavy metal rock performed on the som- nambulate bassoon. But Priscilla's snore, it had a Stevie Wonder sound. A lyrical scrap left over from "My Cherie Amour." Wiggs tried to hum along. 
For a while, he listened and watched, marveling at the manner in which the dawn light seemed to cling to her lashes, at the tiny shadow cast by her Frito nose. 
Then he slid gently off of the couch and gathered his tweeds. Huxley Anne would be waking soon, and he must be there. There were nine bedrooms in the Last Laugh Foundation, but he shared a room with his child. Never did he want her to go looking in the morning for a parent who was really a bookend. 
Before he climbed the stairs, however, he tiptoed into the dining room and surveyed the centerpiece. Selecting the largest of the beets, a specimen that weighed as much as the skull of a lemur, he fetched it back to the den and laid it upon the cushion next to Priscilla's snore. 
Pris slept for about two hours. The length of a Stevie Wonder concert and a few minutes more. When she was awakened by a thud-a-thump on the ceiling, she knew, even before opening her eyes, exactly where she was. 
She caught a whiff of Irish Spring cologne. She sensed the presence of a face beside her own. Smiling, she turned toward the face and kissed it. 
  
Blech! What she kissed was rough and cold and flavored of topsoil. 
Her lids popped open. Any morning light that might have been stuck to her lashes fell away like spilled sugar. 
For a long time, she sat there regarding the beet, looking at it with optimism, misgiving, wonderment, bewilderment, and slight disgust, like a beginning medical student confronting her first anatomical drawing of a prostate gland. 
At that moment, in Concord, Massachusetts, Alobar was likewise engrossed in anatomical scholarship. He had very nearly reported to sick call that morning, but changed his mind when his ears suddenly cooled. Instead, he decided to consult his library of Penthouse magazines. 
As he had pointed out to Dr. Dannyboy, frequent sexual stimulation was essential to a youthful physiometry. And for a heterosexual behind bars, what stimulation was there besides memories and magazines? 
On page 83, a young actress was bent over like a map of Florida, affording an unobstructed view of the inland waterway around Cocoa Beach. Sailing in those backwaters would be sunny and brisk. But at the end of the voyage, he'd be searching the horizon for Kudra again. 
He was thinking of Kudra, her courage, her character, her crazy wisdom, when a guard rattled his cage. "Barr! From the warden!" The guard shoved an official- looking envelope into the cell. "They're gonna hang ya first thing tomorrow. Tough luck. Ha ha." 
"I regret that I have but one life to give for my country," said Alobar, mouthing what to him, from the vantage point of having seen hundreds of countries come and go, come and go, was one of the most shortsighted utterances for which a man was ever remembered. 
The letter informed him that his hearing before the parole board was being postponed until "after the holidays." 
 
Which holidays? Did they mean Thanksgiving, which was only three days away, or all the holidays, Christmas and New Year's as well as Thanksgiving? He sat down on his bunk with his head in his hands. If they kept postponing parole, they might as well hang him. A lump formed in his throat. It was as large as a beet. It was imperative that he dissolve it. 
He ripped up the letter. "I am immortal," he said, ignoring the granny's wedding dress smell that streamed from each of his pores. 
He returned to Penthouse, opening it to the centerfold. In this photograph, the actress reminded him of Alaska, the centerfold of states: big, beautiful, unrefined, empty—and absolutely irresistible to the type of man who shoots a lot of pool in taverns while dreaming constantly of striking it rich. 
"Now, Kudra ..." 
The beet reminded Priscilla, rather rudely, that Wiggs had managed to talk until sunup without ever explaining her connection to his obsessions. She rose, dressed (feeling pleasantly sordid as she wriggled into the green party dress), and went searching for her host. 
Had she thought clearly about it, she might have realized that it was Monday morning and Wiggs had doubtlessly taken Huxley Anne to school. There remained, however, a yard or two of mummy bandage festooning her brain, so she went about the ground floor of the house calling, none too loudly, "Wiggs." 
Unsuccessful, she ascended the stairs and repeated the procedure. No response there, either. She did, however, hear a thumping and bumping noise emanating from the master suite and assumed that it was Wolfgang Morgenstern. 
The door to the suite, thrice her age, was graced by an old-fashioned keyhole. In secretive New Orleans, keyholes were always plugged, but this one was as Open and inviting as a prostitute's kimono. She laid a bloodshot peeper to it. 
Dr. Morgenstern, fully dressed, was skipping and bounding about the suite in a kind of exaggerated, athletic polka. Every once in awhile, he would stop, execute a little backward and forward jitterbug step; then, necktie flapping, an exultant yelp springing from his heaving breast, he would jump straight in the air, up and down, five times. 
Well, she'd witnessed some crazy dances during Mardi Gras and all, but this one took the cake, and the coffee, too. Actually, it looked like fun, although on a morning such as this it would surely put her in the morgue. Nervously, she spied a bit longer, then pulled away. There was an imprint upon her upper cheek that resembled an archway in a sultan's palace. 
Downstairs, slipping into her raincoat, she noticed that the beet still lay on the sofa, but now, unless her nostrils were playing games with her, there hung a vulgar odor about it, the familiar beet-delivery stink, which she was positive had not been present earlier. 
The genius waitress walked home through sunlit traffic. Puddles shrank before her eyes and she could practically hear the pavement drying. "The mountains were out," as they said in Seattle, meaning that the overcast had lifted and snowcapped peaks were flashing flossed fangs from every quadrant, as if Seattle were the object of some cosmic plea for dental health. 
It was one of those glorious days that, had they occurred less rarely, would have led to Seattle being more populous than Tokyo or India. Gulls circled downtown skyscrapers, derelicts with faces like soup bones luxuriated on jewel-bright park benches, and out in the glittering bay, flotillas of sailboats showed off for watercolorists. Despite her bedraggled condition, or because of her bedraggled condition, men smiled at Priscilla as they passed, and she could not help smiling back. 
To be sure, she was exhausted; obviously, she was confused; but she was excited, as well. She felt that she was caught up in some chaotic but grand adventure that was lifting her out of context and placing her beyond the normal constraints of society and biology. 
The idea of a thousand-year-old convict with a dematerialized wife and Pan for a pal was difficult to swallow, and the goings-on at the Last Laugh Foundation were enough to strain the elastic on the cerebral panty hose. Ah, but then there was the bottle! In the past, the bottle had meaning to her only as a means of getting rich—of getting even—but now . . . now, she sensed that the drop or two of exquisite fragrance in that weird old vessel had greater worth than she had imagined. The bottle seemed charged with omen and portent, it had a mojo working, as Madame Devalier and her black friends used to say. That bottle was a link to something. It could melt the ice on the dog dish of destiny, and it was 
hers! 
She was glad that she hadn't told Wiggs about the bottle. It would give her an excuse to see him again soon. It would undoubtedly elevate her in his view, and, speaking of links, it would serve to hook them up like sausages in this Alobar adventure. 
For the first time since she learned the truth about her daddy, Priscilla felt lucky, blessed. Furthermore, unless she was misreading the symptoms, she was in love. 
A rat-bite of guilt accompanied the admission of her amorous state, and she decided that she had better call Ricki right away. To that end, she nipped into Market Time Drugs on Broadway and made for the pay phone, which, as reality would have it, was just across the aisle from the perfume counter. 
Ricki's phone rang three or four times, and then Pris heard that click and moment of artificial silence that meant she was about to be the recipient of a recorded message. 
"Hello, this is Adolf Hitler. I'm out of the country right now, but I'll be happy to return your call as soon as I'm back in power. If Aryan, leave your name and number at the beep." 
After hanging up, Priscilla entertained the notion of taking a bus over to the Ballard district for a meeting face to face. She was reasonably certain Ricki was at home. Then, the last strip of mummy wrap fell away from her brain: Hey! It was Monday, there was a meeting of the Daughters of the Daily Special at the 13 Coins at 11:00 A.M. Ricki would be there. Moreover, the waitresses were going to vote that very day on candidates for a twenty-eight-hundred-dollar grant. 
She looked at the drugstore clock. Jesus, Mary, and Pepto-Bismol! It was ten already. 
Priscilla had been looking forward to fishing out the bottle and, well, studying it, adoring it, consulting it or something, but she barely had time to soap away (a bit reluctantly) the dried and aromatic frosting of coital secretions, to comb her 
  
tangles, apply cosmetics, and change into sweater and jeans. As it was, she arrived at the 13 Coins twelve minutes late. 
"They're hiring at that new seafood restaurant on Lake Union," Trixie Melodian was saying. "What's it called? Fear of Tuna." 
"Forget it," said Sheila Gomez. "I've seen the menu. They're serving Bermuda triangles with shark dip." 
"So what?" countered Ellen Cherry Charles. "I caught the special yesterday at that pit where you work: 'spaghetti western.' " 
"It actually wasn't bad," said Sheila. 
"Yeah? Well, hang 'em high, honey." 
Priscilla surveyed the room. Ricki wasn't there yet. 
"We've got live music now, three nights a week," said Doris Newton. "Improve your tips?" 
"Are you kidding? Stark Naked and the Car Thieves?! Bunch of kids look like they're dressed to invade Iwo Jima. Sound like a cat with its asshole on fire." "I know that band," said Trixie. "They're fun to dance to." "Is that dancing or walking in a mine field?" "People can't dance and eat at the same time." "Worse, people can't dance and tip at the same time." "Car Thieves' fans don't tip. They garrote and strafe." There were no windows in the banquet room, so Priscilla put her ear to the walnut paneling. She thought that she could hear Ricki's clunker maneuvering for a parking space. 
There was a new member present. She was skinny, bepimpled, getting rapidly drunk, and didn't look as if she'd been to college. Of course, looks can be deceiving. The girl gulped a swallow of wine large enough to drown a parakeet, then announced, "Dear Abby is a man." "Pardon," said Ellen Cherry. "Did you know that? Dear Abby is really a man." "Yeah," said Ellen Cherry. "Say, anybody get any tempting and entertaining propositions this week?" "In real life, I mean," said the new girl. "Right," said Ellen Cherry, turning her back and trying again to change the subject. "Come on, ladies. Didn't anybody get invited to spend Christmas on Christmas Island?" 
"I got invited to the Fountain of Youth," said Priscilla. She couldn't help it, it popped right out. "A gentleman asked me to join him in achieving something more than mere animal succession, in perpetuating indefinitely the distinctive personality, the individual self. What do you all think of the idea of human beings living to be a thousand years old? What do you think about death?" 
A silence as thick as an Eskimo throw rug fell over the gathering. 
Fingering her crucifix, Sheila Gomez looked as if she wanted to comment, but the air in the banquet room was so taut she couldn't spit a word out. Finally, Ellen Cherry turned to the new girl. "Are you sure?" she asked. 
"Huh?" "Are you sure Dear Abby is a man." 
The girl brightened. "Oh, yeah," she chirped. "Bald old guy in a wheelchair. Lives in Australia or someplace." 
"How about her sister?" asked Doris. 
"Huh?" 
"The other one. Ann Landers. The sister." 
"Oh, Ann Landers," said the new girl. She smiled triumphantly. "Ann Landers is a man, too." 
Conversation skittered along for a few minutes, Doris wondering, aloud, what university might have given the girl credit for reading The National Enquirer, and Priscilla wondering, to herself, when Ricki was going to arrive. Then President Joan Meep, the driftwood poet, called the meeting to order, and they turned to the business of awarding the grant. 
"We have three contenders," said Joan. "There's Amaryllis Tidroe, who wants to complete her portfolio of photographs of wrestlers' wives; there's Trixie Melodian, who, by the way, was a winner year before last, and she's choreographing a ballet based upon the social habits of lemmings—" 
"Ought to have a spectacular ending," put in Doris. 
"—and there's Elizabeth Reifstaffel, who wants to research her master's thesis on the effects of the menstrual cycle on dream content. Okay ..." 
"Wait a minute!" shouted Priscilla. "What about my project? What about me?" 
There was a bloated pause, after which Joan said, "I'm very sorry, Pris, but Ricki Sinatra, who was your sponsor, called this morning and withdrew your nomination." 
Priscilla wept all the way home. Pushing her bike up Olive Way, her tears threatened to refill the puddles that the unseasonal November sunshine had been evaporating. At one point, she passed a dilapidated building in front of which Tito, the famous Spanish photographer, was posing some local fashion models. "No! No!" Tito screamed at an intimidated young beauty. "Do not smile! Do not smile! Look sophisticated." Priscilla wanted to yell "Happy Birthday, Tito" — she wanted to yell, "Are any of you girls married to wrestlers?"—but her throat was too choked with sobs. 
At the top of the hill, she stopped at a telephone booth and dialed Ricki. A few rings, then that mechanical click and the canned silence: "Hello, this is Ricki Sinatra. I've been stricken with eight varieties of virus, including the Mekong Delta chills, the Mongolian railroad flu, and the Hong Kong rubber pork chop. I'm under doctor's orders not to be disturbed. The AMA joins me in requesting that you honor ..." 
"Screw her!" said Priscilla, slamming down the receiver. "Screw all of "em!" Through the disappointment, the humiliation, the fatigue, and the guilt, there surged a voltage of defiance. "I have the bottle," she said. "I don't need Ricki, I don't need her goddamned educated waitresses, I don't need Stepmother Devalier and her pickaninny. I don't need any of 'em. I have the bottle!" 
But, of course, she did not have the bottle. 
She made that devastating discovery immediately upon returning to her studio 
   
apartment, where the refrigerator made noises at night like sea cows ruminating, where the toilet sounded like the audio portion of a white-water rafting expedition, where fallout from fifty* failed base-note experiments perfumed the peeling wallpaper, and where the Kotex box on the bathroom shelf was empty now, except for a couple of frayed and yellowing pads. 
Priscilla did not have the bottle, not anymore, and if she hadn't the bottle, she hadn't hope or dream, and lacking hope or dream, why would she wish to live to be a thousand? Or twenty-five? for that matter. The bottle, once a flagon of fulfillable fantasy, once the repository of ambition and purose, was falling into the category of galloping mind-fuck— and a woman really didn't need more than one "perfect taco" in her life. 
CALENDAR OF EVENTS 
Monday afternoon, November 26: Priscilla Lester Partido traveled to Seattle's Ballard district, where despite pounding, kicking, and screaming that aggravated the murmuring hearts of every old Norwegian in the neighborhood, she was denied admission to the duplex of Ricki Sinatra. 
Monday evening, November 26: Priscilla contacted police, who informed her that they could not interfere without a warrant. The judge on duty refused to issue a warrant directing authorities to search for an old perfume bottle for which there was no proof of ownership, which, by the complainant's admission, contained only a few drops of perfume, and which had been concealed, prior to alleged disappearance, in a Kotex box. 
Monday night, November 26: Priscilla resisted the impulse to call Wiggs Dannyboy, for fear that he might doubt her story. 
Tuesday morning, November 27: Priscilla met with an attorney. The lawyer telephoned Ricki, who assured him that she had no perfume bottle, never wore the stuff, was unaware of the existence of the antique bottle in question (having, in numerous visits to the client's apartment, neither seen nor heard mention of such a bottle), and invited the attorney to personally search her duplex, her car, and her locker at the Ballard Athletic Club. The attorney was convinced. 
 
Tuesday evening, November 27: Ricki the bartender and Priscilla the waitress got into a shouting match in the cocktail lounge at El Papa Muerta, the waitress calling the bartender "a thieving, vindictive dyke" and the bartender characterizing the waitress as "a liar, a two-timer, and a clumsy slut." They were separated by fellow employees and reprimanded by management. 
Midnight, Tuesday/Wednesday, November 27/28: Priscilla found a note under her door inviting her to Thanksgiving dinner at the Last Laugh Foundation, where the celebrated French perfumer Marcel LeFever was to be feted along with Dr. Wolfgang Morgenstern. The note was typed and quite formal, but was signed, in an eccentric scrawl resembling the markings made by the muddy tail of a water buffalo, "Love and Kisses, Wiggs." 
Wednesday evening, November 28: A second heated exchange at El Papa Muerta, during which the waitress Priscilla repeatedly demanded that the bartender Ricki relinquish a purloined perfume bottle, resulted in the waitress Priscilla being fired. She was escorted from the premises and informed that she was to return her sailor dress within twenty-four hours or face prosecution. The waitress Priscilla offered to doff the uniform on the spot, but the manager, despite a twitch of prurient interest, insisted that it be laundered first, as it was badly dappled with salsa suprema. "That's ketchup and you know it," said Priscilla. 
Wednesday night, November 28: Priscilla stopped off at Ernie Steele's Bar & Grill, where she proceeded to get intoxicated enough to forget where she had parked her bicycle (which she then abandoned), but not so intoxicated as to give in to the burning desire to call Dr. Dannyboy. 
Midnight, Wednesday/Thursday, November 28/29: Priscilla, on foot—and wobbling—returned home to find another note, this one imparting the information that Marcel LeFever, upon arrival in New York, had learned of the death of his uncle, Luc, head of LeFever Odeurs, and rushed back to Paris. Thanksgiving dinner was canceled. Wiggs added that he, nevertheless, hoped to see Pris soon. Accompanying the note was a beet. Accompanying the beet was a raunchy aroma. Priscilla hurled the beet the length of the hall. It rattled some innocent tenant's door, 'probably interrupting a Johnny Carson monologue. 
Thursday morning, November 29: Priscilla flopped on the sofa, flopping, further, into a drift of sooty snow; sinking into the placid nightlife of a city of wool, a 
subterranean Venice flooded by ink, where a language of bubbles was spoken, and misfortunes, like furniture in storage, were draped with heavy blue coverlets. 
Thursday afternoon, November 29: The dying gobble of a 
hundred million Thanksgiving sacrifices could not awaken her. Friday morning, November 30: Still sleeping. Friday afternoon, November 30: Ditto. 
Friday night, November 30: Priscilla was pulled to the surface by a banging at the .door. She stood, stretched, and admitted Wiggs Dannyboy. She greeted him with a kiss. The inside of her mouth was as white as a swamp snake's. He didn't seem to mind, but, rather, prodded her coated, sluggish tongue with his fresh, lively one. He slipped off her panties and nicked her on the floor in her sailor dress. Refreshed now by forty hours of slumber and a spine-shuddering orgasm, she could scarcely believe how well she felt. She lay in his arms, purring like a Rolls-Royce that has learned it isn't going to be sold to an Arab, after all. 'Tell me a story," she said. "Sure and one time in the jungles o' Costa Rica, me voice was stolen by a parrot. For six months, durin' which time I could utter not a syllable, I beat the bushes for that bird ..." "No," said Priscilla, sweetly. "Tell me a story about beets." "Very well then," said he. 
Upon his release from Concord State Prison, Dr. Dannyboy had moved to Seattle, where eventually he leased the proper mansion and established his longevity clinic. Some eighteen months later, he traveled to New Orleans, where a perfumer's convention was about to commence. His motives were vague. "I had vowed to devote me life to immortality work," he said, "and me conversations with Alobar had led me to believe, for some peculiar reason, that perfumery was somehow connected to the mystery o' mysteries. I mean, I knew that the sense o' smell played a role in the evolution o' consciousness, and thought perhaps . . . I'm not sure what I thought. Twas just a hunch. I was searchin' for clues. Twas intuition led me there. Intuition being the most reliable instrument in science." 
Discouraged initially by the focus on merchandising, Wiggs was about to give up on the convention when he heard a speech delivered by Marcel LeFever. 
"Yes, that was some speech," interrupted Priscilla. "Up until that point, I'd always hated perfumery. I'd gotten involved with it again because I had a little understanding of it, and for reasons I won't go into now, I believed I had a chance to make a lot of money from it. But I was contemptuous of it, due to childhood experiences and all. It was simply a means to an end. But LeFever's 
speech . . . boy, he gave me a whole new attitude about perfumery. He made it sound so magical, so special, so important ..." 
"Your man did that, all right," said Wiggs. 
After the speech, Wiggs had caught up with Marcel in the corridor adjacent to the auditorium. He had bombarded him with praise and expressions of his own interests. Marcel responded enthusiastically, especially when Wiggs pointed out that the dolphin has no sense of smell. Dolphins have larger brains than humans, and their rudimentary fingers suggest that at one point in prehistory, they might have been the equal of men in more physical ways. Yet, while humanity has gone on to ever more complex achievements in philosophy, athletics, art, and technology, the nonproductive dolphin has apparently swum into an evolutionary cul-de-sac. Could it be, asked Dannyboy of LeFever, that the dolphin failed (in an evolutionary sense) because it neglected to develop an olfactory capability? 
" Twas obvious I was on your man's wavelength, and he was invitin' me to dine with him at Galatoire's, when you approached. Yes, darlin', that was me standin' there, but you didn't notice me. And after you showed up, LeFever didn't notice me, either. Your man has an eye for fine flesh, or, rather he has a nose for it, because all the time you and him were speakin', I could see him snifBn' you up and down, smellin' you out, as it were. Well, bless you, you mustn't o' been his type. He listened politely, wrinklin' his nose all the while, as you told him that you lived in Seattle and were developin" a great jasmine-theme perfume with a citrus top note, but was lookin' for somethin' a wee unusual in the way of a base, and did he have a suggestion o' bases to explore, bases that might o' been used long ago and forgotten. Yes, and he was tellin' you that 'twas a complicated matter, and some base notes had as many as eighty-five separate ingredients in 'em; not bein' very helpful, I'd have to say, when this lovely young black woman walks up. 
"Well, 'twas apparent you and your black woman were on familiar terms, familiar but not especially friendly." (Priscilla nodded, vigorously.) "But your man ignores your frosty exchange, and he begins to sniff her up and down, only this time the deeply scalloped wings o' his snout are beatki' like a fat swan trapped in a wind tunnel, flappin' like an archangel on Methedrine, she is gettin' through to him on the olfactory level. The comic thing is that she is givin' him almost the same exact story as you. She's speakin' French, and me French is a wee rusty, but I hear her say she lives there in New Orleans and has got a 
wonderful jasmine-theme perfume brewin", only she's havin' difficulty with locatin' somethin' special and unusual to bottom it out, and the sly devil tells her that he's gettin' interested in jasmines again himself, and maybe he can lend a hand. Lend a prick is more like it. Next thing I know, your man is invitin' your woman to dine with him at Galatoire's, only there's no mention o' me, in French or English." 
Thereupon, Dr. Dannyboy was on the verge of asking Priscilla to dinner at Galatoire's: "complicate the scene a bit, if you can't get any enlightenment out of a situation, you might as well get some fun." At that moment, however, the handle on a nearby emergency-exit door began to jiggle, as if someone in the alley outside wanted to be let in, so Wiggs opened the door. There was nobody there. But, with the opening of the door, a rank odor rushed in, an odor embarrassing in its suggestion of unwashed genitals and bestial glands. Wiggs recognized the smell. 
"One morning in Concord, I woke before me accustomed hour. I came into consciousness holding me nose. There was a bloody rotten smell in our cell, as if the warden had put a herd o' goats in with us. I asked Alobar what was goin' on, and your man said, 'It was Pan. Pan came to visit me during the night.' 
" 'No joke? What did he say?" I asked. 'Why, he didn't say anything,' said Alobar. 'Pan can no longer speak. He just dropped by. I suppose to show me that he wasn't finished yet.' Can ye imagine? The smell hung around for nearly an hour. And 'twas the very same smell that blew through the door in New Orleans that day. I turned to remark on it, but you had gone. And a minute later, LeFever was escortin' the black girl toward the main entrance and the street. 
"I went out in the alley and looked around, but there wasn't a sign o' anythin'. So I got me hands on a list o' convention attenders—it listed Marcel's address and yours and V'lu Jackson's, too—and took a night flight back to Seattle. There was a lot o' funny business goin' on in this blarney-stone head o' mine." 
/ know the feeling, thought Priscilla. Her relaxed state was giving way to a video arcade of blinking wonderments and beeping forebodings. A chill, like current from a nuclear icicle, vibrated her sex-softened spine. 
"Wiggs," she asked, after a while—she was clearly afraid to phrase the question —"Wiggs"—her brain stem was quivering as if it were being prodded by a jewel 
—"Wiggs, is it ... Pan . . . who's leaving the beets?" "No," he answered, without hesitation. 
Somewhat relieved, Priscilla raised herself on one elbow. In the process, she accidentally struck her worktable, causing lab ware to tinkle and slosh. It was a miracle, she thought, that they hadn't dumped the whole enterprise in the throes of their passion. 
"But the smell ..." "The smell is Pan's, all right." "It is?" 
"Indeed. Though it isn't old Pan who's deliverin' the beets. As a matter o' fact, Pan is tryin' to prevent the delivery o' the beets. Pan is tryin' to interfere with the delivery o' the beets. Only your god is weak and limited, nowadays, and there's little he can do but leave a reminder o' himself—and the powers that he represents—to discourage the recipient and him that is leavin' beets." 
"And that is ... ?" She sounded calm enough, but she was quaking inside. "Me." 
'^You?" 
" Tis me left all the homely little vegetables at your door. Tis me leavin' 'em with V'lu Jackson. I've spent a small fortune flyin* to New Orleans and back. Fortunately, I have me royalties. And 'tis a friend o' mine from the acid days been droppin' 'em off for Marcel LeFever. He's a professor in Paris and his son works in the mailroom at the LeFever Building. Were ye aware that Marcel and V'lu have been gettin' beets, as well?" 
"Well, no. Hell no, I wasn't aware—" 
  
"I'm sorry, but ye didn't have an exclusive contract, ye know." "Why, Wiggs? Why the goddamn beets?" 
"1 can't tell ye, darlin'. I'd dearly love to tell ye, but I can't. I gave Alobar me word. The fairies would cause me terrible sufferin' if I broke me vow." 
"But—" 
"Listen. Don't fret. Ye can figure out for yourself. If you think about it real hard and be puttin' two and two together, it will come to ye. Clear as the tap water that spoils your man's whiskey. Just give it some thought." 
Priscilla agreed and set into thinking, but Wiggs suggested they chew up some geoduck first. Since she hadn't eaten in a couple of days, she agreed to that, also. 
After tidying themselves a bit, they set out by'taxi for Never Cry Tuna, the new restaurant on Lake Union. Sure enough, Trixie Melodian was working there. 
"Amaryllis Tidroe got the grant," Trixie said. 
Priscilla wasn't surprised. "Oh, goody! I can't wait to see eight-by-ten glossies of Mrs. Masked Marvel." 
"You're taking it awfully well," said Trixie. "Not to mention Mrs. Garp—" "I thought he wrote books." "—and the various loving helpmates of the midget tag team." "I could eat the midget tag team," said Wiggs. 
"One order of shrimp with mussels," said Priscilla. 
"Jesus," moaned Trixie. "If I'd gotten that grant, I wouldn't be here listening to this." 
 

Priscilla wanted Wiggs to spend the night at her place, but he claimed that Huxley Anne would be needing him bright and early. "But tomorrow's Saturday," said Pris. 
"We watch cartoons together," said Wiggs. 
Since no invitation to join them appeared forthcoming, she kissed him good night in the lobby and climbed the lonely stairs, stumbling often enough in her ascent to insure exclusion from all future Everest expeditions. 
As she lay on the sofa digesting the goeduck, she figured out that beets must be the secret ingredient, the elusive base note, in K23. Why else would Wiggs be bombarding perfumers with them? Yet, how could that be? A beet had no memorable aroma, and it would turn a perfume the color of Dracula's mouthwash. 
It was puzzling. And it might be academic, as well, if she couldn't recover the bottle. The loss of the bottle was one of those "harsh realities" with which she was not unfamiliar. If she was relatively equanimious about it, it was because Wiggs was teaching her that "harsh realities" were not the only realities: that there were many different realities, and to a certain extent, with the proper focus of energy, one could choose which reality one wished to live. One might even outwit the harshest reality of all. 
For the third night in a row, Pris fell asleep in El Papa Muerta's sailor dress, its wine-dark ketchup stains now counterbalanced by scrambles of chalky semen. As she drifted into sleep, she had the feeling that she was waking up. 
In the week that followed, Priscilla fiddled with her lab equipment, meditated upon the beet, spent the funds that she'd been saving to purchase jasmine oil on a private detective ("I'm positive Ricki Sinatra has my bottle"), and worried, progressively as each day passed, that she'd not hear from Wiggs again. On Saturday, .however, her presence was requested at the Last Laugh Foundation to participate in "the Alobar-Kudra bath ritual." 
Out of the frying pan and into the hot tub, she thought. 
 
The line outside the Foundation walls seemed slightly longer and considerably more agitated than usual. People hollered rude things at her when she was let through the gate. 
" Tis the news background," explained Wiggs. "The Middle East is smokin' cigars in the fireworks stand again, and that shallow jackass in the White House is waggin' his nuclear-headed peepee at the Russians. People are nervous." 
"I don't get it, Wiggs. I mean, if there's such a universal longing for immortality, if the human race is going bananas because it can't accept any more that it has to die, why do we still have wars? All this military violence seems to contradict your theory." 
"Not in the least," he replied, loosening, like an iguana butcher, the spinal column of one of his beloved zippers. "Your common man is willin' to go to war only because he hates death so much." 
Having successfully filleted his own trousers, he seized the triangular viper-head of Priscilla's fly and rib by rib, pulled it apart. "Don't you see? The enemy represents Death to 'em. The government propaganda mills paint the enemy as an unfeelin', devourin' monster. So, when we go to war we go on a noble mission, a life-affirming mission, whose object is the destruction o' death. And 'tis precisely because we hate death so much that we're too crazed and irrational to see the irony in it. We hate death so bloody much that we will kill-—and die —in order to try to halt its march." 
In unison, they stepped out of their pants. Their gap-toothed zippers, split like the vertebrae of a temple sacrifice, made a tiny clink when- they hit the tiles of the tub-room floor. 
"As a grandiose self-deception, war is o' the same magnitude as religion. We embrace war or religion—usually both at the same time—as a means o' defeatin' death, but neither o' them do a blinkin' thing but sanction dyin'. Throughout history, Death's best friend has been a priest with a knife." At their feet, the zippers shuddered. 
They lowered themselves into the steaming water, tensing at first from the shock of the heat, then relaxing until they were as buoyant as sausages. 
 
"Ahhh. How many can you get in this tub?" "Ahhh. Six, as a rule. You can fit eight, but 'tis rather crowded." "If it wasn't for death, the world would be eight in a tub." "Uh?" "Overpopulation. If nobody died, pretty soon it would be standing room only." 
"That's one o' the standard arguments in favor o' death, but it doesn't hold water. Or whiskey, either. We don't have an overpopulation problem, we have a land- use problem. We're sprawlin' out all over the place, like hogs in a rose garden, takin' up a thousand times more space than we need. If we were to stress vertical growth instead o' horizontal, if we were to build tall apartment complexes instead of acres o' one-story ticky-tackies, there'd be more than enough room. If we built tall enough, and we have the technological capability, we could double the world's population and still fit every single one of us into the state o' Texas. Comfortably, I might add. The rest o' the planet could be given over to agriculture and recreation. And wilderness. We could have elephant herds again. Buffalo on Main Street." 
"That would be nice," she said. "Speaking of vertical development, I thought hot water was supposed to take the starch out of this." She slipped her fingers around his half-hard penis. It immediately grew taller. Were it an apartment building, they could have moved another hundred families in. 
"Love, little darlin', defies the laws o' physics. Or, rather, it breaks the habits." 
As she stroked him, he tapped his moisture-studded eye patch and, with some difficulty, continued to hold forth on his favorite theme. 
"Besides, not everybody is goin' to give up death. The death wish is very strong, and a lot o' people prefer to die. You'd be surprised at the number who say their lives are so miserable they couldn't bear the thought o' lengthenin' "em." 
"Speaking of lengthening ..." "Alobar says you aren't supposed to do this until after the soak." 
"Sorry. You know, my daddy used to say, 'Life is rough, and then you die.' " 
"Bad attitude," said Wiggs. 
"Then he'd wink and say, 'But, meanwhile, there's Mardi Gras.' " 
"Your father was willin' to enjoy some crumbs, but not the whole cake." 
"But his life was short and rough. Maybe most lives are. I read once that it takes a chicken-plucking machine barely forty seconds to complete the job." 
"Indeed. But remember, at that point the chicken is only naked, not dead." 
"Speaking of which ..." "Okay, darlin'. Okay." 
Wiggs placed his palms beneath her reddening buttocks and, assisted by the water, lifted her up, centered her, then lowered her slowly onto the length of his shaft. When she struck bottom, she emitted a primitive cry, coming almost immediately. He lifted her off again. The entire procedure occurred in the span of time it would have taken a. chicken-plucking machine to defeather a drumstick. 
When she could speak, she said, "If we did die—you and me, I mean—you could come back as a lily pad, and I'd be a very happy frog." 
"A pleasant arrangement, but let's not be countin' on it." "I'm surprised you don't believe in reincarnation." 
"Why? 'Tis probably just another rationalization. Reincarnation—or the transmigration o' souls—was an idea spawned in one o' the most rigid social systems humanity has ever devised. Your ancient Hindu was stuck like a gnat in amber. Durin' his lifetime, he was obliged to live in a prescribed place with a prescribed family and practice a prescribed occupation. The possibility o' mobility did not exist. The hand you were dealt at birth was the hand you played. Everythin' was predestined, and you couldn't change a bleedin' dot o' it. Since 
 
they had no chance o' change in life, 'tis only natural they fantasized about change in the afterlife. Reincarnation was simply a fantasy your Hindu perpetuated to keep his rigid reality model from drivin' him mad. 
"That's why Kudra, by the way, was such a remarkable figure. Can you imagine the odds against a tenth-century Hindu, especially a woman, breakin' out o' those fetters? When it comes to liberatin' the Indians, Kudra's example is worth a barrel o' Gandhis." 
"I can appreciate that. But how can you be positive we don't reincarnate?" 
"Oh, I can't. You can't be positive about anything regardin' an afterlife. There's not a dot o' proof anywhere." 
"Well, now, what about those people who die temporarily on the operating table? They seem to have very similar experiences. Leaving their bodies behind with relief, feelings of great tranquillity and love, reuniting with deceased friends and relatives. And most of them describe an encounter with some kind of light ..." 
"Who knows? Maybe it signifies that the best is yet to come, which suits me, I guarantee. On the other hand, we know that the brain remains electrically alive for up to thirty minutes after the heart and other vital organs have ceased to function. So these 'heavenly' experiences o' the temporarily dead may be merely an archetypal drama unfolding upon the stage o' departin' consciousness, a farewell performance of a powerful mythological allegory. And when the brain turns the juice off a half-hour later, boom, the curtain falls once and for all; the show is over, and there's no waitin' up for the reviews. Ultimate solitude. As for the light, well, all o' matter is condensed light. We came from light, each of us, so where's the wonder that we return to it in death?" 
"So, you're saying any way we slice it we're doomed." 
"Not at all, Pris. I'm sayin' that we don't know what the afterlife is like, we absolutely do not know. Therefore, until we do know, we ought to do our best to go on livin'." 
"But how will we ever know?" 
"Should your man Alobar make contact with Kudra, we'd learn a lot, we would. "Tis a long shot, but I believe it might still be done. Part o' the secret lies in the 
perfume." 
They climbed from the tub to allow their blood to cool. The tiles pressed like frozen petals against their flesh. Their bodies gave off a painterly glow. An Old Master glow. Still Life With Boiled Beets. 
"Amazing, Wiggs." "What's that?" "Amazing. After all that talking, your pole is still up." "I'm not Gerry Ford, ye know. I can do more than one thing at a time." 
Grinning, she hovered over him. Then, like a fist closing around a doorknob, her grin closed around him. With her lips, she turned the knob first one way and then the other: left, right, open, shut; left, right, open, shut. The knob did not squeak. In fact, Wiggs was unusually quiet. 
Now, falling into rhythm, she sucked the knob from its axle, sucked the axle from its door, the door from its hinges. Out onto the lawn, tempo increasing, she sucked up the flagstone walk, the rosebushes, the petunia bed, the sprinkler, the driveway, and the small Japanese car parked in the driveway: Oh, what a feeling! Toyota! Wiggs moaned as the neighborhood disappeared. 
The towers of the city began to sway, and soon, the planet itself fell victim to the force, swelling at its equator, throbbing at its poles. It wobbled violently on its axis, once, twice, then exploded. The Big Bang theory, proven at last. Continuing to impersonate a black hole, she pulled in every drop and particle— she'd never had a man in such entirety—and it wasn't until the final spasm had subsided and the cosmos was at peace that she loosened her grip and, lips glistening like the Milky Way, looked up to see—the legs of a third party standing there. 
"Ach! I am-fery sorry." 
  
Wolfgang Morgenstern, nude except for a towel about his hips, turned stiffly and strode, with steps of Prussian exactitude, from the tub room. Dr. Morgenstern was red-faced, sweaty, and breathless. Presumably, his condition was due to his jumping—his immortalist dance, his solo jitterbug—and not to the effects of the cosmic spectacle that he had stumbled upon. 
"God! I'm mortified. I'm so embarrassed I could die." Priscilla covered her face with her hands, surreptitiously wiping the corners of her mouth. 
"Did you hear what you just said? 'Mortified. I could die.' Pris, ye must never use such expressions. They are unconscious manifestations o' the death wish. You're signaltn' the universe that death is not only acceptable but deserved." 
"Oh, Wiggs!" 
"And as for your Nobel laureate, 'tis high time he had a taste o' quality entertainment. He does seem to be gettin' younger, to tell the truth, but I don't know what good 'tis doin' him, cooped up in his room." 
Wiggs pulled her hands away from her face and kissed her. "Darlin", ye were magnificent." 
"I was?" 
"Truly. Ye must promise me now, no more expressions such as, 'I'm so embarrassed I could die' or "The suspense is killin' me.' " 
"I'll try. But how will I ever face him?" "With pride," said Wiggs. "With pride." They slid back into the Jacuzzi. 
Minus the extra heat of desire, the water seemed cooler now. They submerged to their chins in the tropical broth, the pot of doldrums, the horse latitudes that modern landlubbers had domesticated and miniaturized, wrapping themselves 
  
willingly in its enervating ripples. 
"You know, Wiggs," she said, her voice softened to near inaudibility by the sultry climate, "it seems like with you everything leads back to the subject of death." 
"Sure and show me the person's road that does not lead to death. We try to divert our attention, to pretend 'tisn't so, but the very air we breathe is vulture's breath. Please don't be insinuatin' your man is morbid. I dwell on death in order to defeat it." 
"But suppose death is necessary to evolution. What if we have to give up our bodies so that we can evolve off the earth plane, move on to a higher plane? It might be foolish and regressive to cling to our physical bodies." 
"Might be. Although life on the astral plane has always held a minimum o' charm for me. No whiskey, no books, no Frederick's o' Hollywood. And if it should turn out that there is no astral evolution, where does that leave your poor dead self? Tis a gamble I'm not willin' to take." 
"After the gambles you've taken with vision root, all those psychological deaths and rebirths, how could you still be afraid of regular old dying." 
"Sure and I'm not afraid o' dying. Never have been. Death can't do anything to us because death is dead. What's dead can't hurt ye. Fear is not the issue. Like your man Alobar, I'm less scared than resentful. We've got ourselves stuck in a cyclic system that makes true freedom, true growth impossible. In the arts, a period o' classicism is followed by a period o' romanticism. Then 'tis back to the classical again. 'Tis as simpleminded as a bloody pendulum, and for me, at least, it robs art of any real meaning. Same thing in society. A conservative cycle, a liberal cycle, then a conservative cycle again. Action and reaction, back and forth, like the tides. As long as we're trapped in these cycles, we can't expect much in the way o' liberation, we can't even expect fundamental change except the awful slow variety where each step takes a million years or more. For most of our history, we were trapped by the seasonal cycles, the weather cycles. Now, however, we can at least move south for the winter, north for the summer. The seasons still operate cyclically, but we don't have to submit to 'em. All I'm askin' is for that kind o' mobility in life as a whole. I'm askin' for the opportunity to break out o' the birth-death cycle. Ye see what I mean? 'Tis far too rigid and 
predictable to suit me. Cycles take the meaning out o' life, just as they do in art. Me hope is this: certain individuals have always managed to break out o' the artistic and social cycles—that's why I love and respect your individual more than I love and respect humanity at large. Maybe, maybe, the time is ripe for certain individuals to escape the birth-death cycle, as well. And I don't mean by vaporizin' into the void o' Buddhist Nirvana, either. Maybe Alobar has done just that. Maybe I can do it, as well. And maybe—as long as I'm into the maybes— some cycle-buster will come along to rescue mankind from the hollow tides o' mortality." 
"We deserve a break today?" 
"We do." 
"Dying is a bad habit?" 
"Yes, and must be broken." 
"Good luck, Wiggs." 
"Thanks. You know, there is one condition under which I might willingly die. Might even take me own life." 
"You're joking?" 
He shook his head as somberly as an elephant. "If anything ever happened to Huxley Anne, I think I would choose to die, too, just on the chance that we could be together." 
"Oh." 
Wiggs was quiet for a while. A tear bubbled up, like a syllable from a flounder, in his single eye. It hung upside down from his lower lid, like a transparent sloth from a ledge, until gravity finally pried it loose, sending it plunging, silently, headlong, salt and all, into the anonymity of the steaming tub. 
"One last thing about death," said Wiggs. 
"What's that?" Pris asked rather morosely. She was still staring at the spot where his teardrop had hit the water. 
"After you die, your hair and your nails continue to grow." "I've heard that." "Yes. But your phone calls taper off." 
Once more, they climbed out onto the tiles to cool. Then, another hot soak and a final cooling. They toweled and slipped into their underpants, his as crisp and green as a shamrock, hers a faded, indeterminable color ringed with sagging elastic. They donned their pants, his of tweed, hers of denim, and, with the hands of miracle workers, restored to wholeness the golden salamanders that held the pant fronts together. 
He'd made it clear she was not to stay the night. Seemed he and Huxley Anne had plans for early morning. So she embraced him at the door, feeling a trifle, well, vulnerable, insecure, and was steeling herself for the walk home when he asked, "Well, how's it comin' with the perfume?" 
She hadn't wanted to speak of perfume for fear she might blurt out something about the bottle. She dare not tell him of the bottle, but, rather, must show it to him, must hold it up to that gleaming orb of his and watch the silver hairs stand on his head like the bristles of a robot's toothbrush. How she looked forward to that moment! 
"I've come to the conclusion," she said, "that beet is the bottom note in K23. Am I right?" 
Hesitant to respond, he eventually nodded in the affirmative, trusting that the fairies, that the Salmon That Fed on the Nine Hazel Nuts of Poetic Art, that his ex-wife's knickers would not regard a nod a breach of promise. 
"I thought so. But how in the world is it used? I really can't figure out ..." "You're the perfumer." 
It was Priscilla's turn to nod in agreement, but to herself she said, "Ha! I'm an unemployed waitress without an ounce of first-rate jasmine to my name. And if I don't get lucky, and feist, this time next week I'll be hustling nachos at 
 
someplace like Gourmet de Tijuana." 
The way she backed through the door, waving good-bye, sort of burdened and flustered, you'd have thought that she had suddenly and inadvertently cornered the world market in refined beans. 
In truth, Priscilla felt a twinge of resentment that she had to return to her little studio apartment. Certainly there was plenty of room for her at the Last Laugh Foundation. Why, Christ and all twelve disciples could have dwelt in the Last Laugh Foundation, although Judas would have had to sleep on the sun porch. 
She walked down the path feeling like three-fourths of two pieces of slug bait. As she passed the letter box at the guard gate, she had an urge to stick a stamp on her forehead and mail herself to the Abominable Snowman. 
On the street, it was worse. The crowd of aspiring immortalists was restless and surly. They glared at her as if she were a piece of modern art at a county fair. A hostile sneer here, a puzzled laugh there, and not a blue ribbon in sight. 
Apparently, there recently had been a provision run, because many in line were munching on fast-food hamburgers. They were old enough to know better. Some of them were old enough to remember when old McDonald had a farm. 
People used to die from germs. Now they died from bad habits. That was what Dr. Dannyboy said. Heart disease was caused by bad personal habits, cancer was caused by bad industrial habits, war was caused by bad political habits. Dannyboy believed that even old age was a habit. And habits could be broken. Priscilla felt like lecturing the crowd on its habits and sending it home, but, of course, she did not. 
Toward the end of the line, she thought she heard a white-haired guy on crutches remark that it was December 7, "the thirty-fifth anniversary of the Japanese attack on Pearl Bailey." He was wrong. It was then December 8. 
Five days later, on December 13, Pris gave Wiggs Dannyboy a call. She was in a funk about their "relationship," a snit compounded by the detective's lack of 
  
progress, and was desperate enough to try to force a talk. "Pris, me darlin', 'tis happy I am that ye called!" "Really?" 
"Sure and I couldn't be happier was I to learn that God and the Devil had settled out o' court, endin' once and for all the ridiculous notion of a struggle between good and evil that has provided the religious o' the world with a pious excuse to kill and plunder and has spoiled the plot o' many a novel. I couldn't be happier was I to grow another eye, one that shines in the night like a wolfs eye and can twist on its stalk to look up a lassie's skirt. I couldn't be happier was Alobar to be released from the nick, which, indeed, he may be next month, if it's not too late. As fortunate as I am to be born an Irishman and thus possess a license to broadcast this brand o' pseudolyrical bullshit, that's how fortunate I am that you —I mean, ye—called. I would have called ye but ye haven't a phone." 
"Don't mock the afflicted." 
"Or I would've dropped by, except I've been to New Orleans to deliver a certain vegetable. Ye know what I mean?" 
"All too well." 
"I do have good news. Marcel 'Bunny' LeFever has successfully buried his Uncle Luc and has aimed his wondrous nose again in our direction. Dr. Morgenstern and I—he sends his regards, by the way—are planning another dinner party, if we can coax the university scientists away from their research for the CIA. A week from tonight, I think, and ye must come. Only this time ye must sit next to me; to me left, would be proper, so's I can rest me left hand on your tender thigh while I am liftin' a sociable glass with me right." 
"Wiggs?" "Yes, love?" 
"You've had me to dinner, and now Marcel LeFever is coming. I'm curious why you haven't had my stepmother or V'lu." 
"Oh, I invited them. As a matter of fact, I just learned on this trip to New Orleans 
that V'lu actually flew to Seattle to attend the last dinner. I have no idea why she didn't show up." 
"Wait a minute. V'lu was in town the night of that party?" "Yes. Stayed overnight and returned home the next day." 
Adrenaline welled in Priscilla with such pressure it was practically shooting out of her major orifices. 
"Wiggs," she said, "I have to make a trip to New Orleans myself." "When?" "Right away." "Will ye be back in time for the party?" 
"I hope so. If I am, I'll have a surprise for you." "Goody. I love surprises." "Good-bye then." "Bye-bye, Pris. Have a lovely trip and watch out for the bees." After she hung up, she thought, Watch out for the bees? Whatever did he mean? She would find out soon enough. 
The Chinese discovered gunpowder by accident while trying to invent a potion that would alchemically lengthen life. 
It is unclear what the Chinese were trying to invent when they discovered spaghetti. Perhaps the spaghetti noodle, too, was a byproduct of longevity research, of an effort to live a won, won ton; a futile attempt to avoid facing the question, "Who's going to chop your suey when I'm gone?" 
No matter. It may be prudent, however, for would-be immortals to bear in mind 
 
the Chinese experience. Seeking prolonged existence, they ended up with gunpowder, the elixir of death, not life; the propellant of history's innumerable tragic bullets, including the ones that felled Gandhi, John Lennon, and Bambi's mother—and the one that left Bingo Pajama facedown on Royal Street. 
Figuratively and literally, New Orleans was buzzing. It was an angry black buzz in counterpoint with a terrified white buzz: historically typical of that city where slaves liberated themselves long before Lincoln, where a black aristocracy flowered to rival the only true white aristocracy in America, where a black voodoo queen once ruled as completely (if covertly) as any Catherine of Russia; where African mystery, large, organic, and powerful, has provided a soundtrack of primeval rhythm against which all metropolitan life—stodgy white - commerce as well as fierce black pleasure—has had to unfold. 
Even in slavery, the blacks called the tune. Proud and virtually fearless, they danced in Congo Square in such a graceful abandon, in such harmony with unseen forces, that their owners acted to outlaw African dancing lest it escalate into rebellion. And all the while, even as the owners drafted proclamation after proclamation of wiggle prohibition, their white toes tapped in their shoes. White folks have controlled New Orleans with money and guns, black folks have controlled it with magic and music, and although there has been a steady undercurrent of mutual admiration, an intermingling of cultures unheard of in any other American city, South or North; although there has prevailed a most joyous and fascinating interface, black anger and white fear has persisted, providing the ongoing, ostensibly integrated fete champetre with volatile and sometimes violent idiosyncrasies. 
Due to their poverty, anger, and moral imperatives, some New Orleans blacks were disposed to create a jazz of robbery. Due to their insecurity, fear, -and religious philosophy, some New Orleans whites were disposed to compose hymns of brutality. The thieves tooted out of the federal housing projects—they were young, spirited, and pessimistic. The cops lumbered out of the bayous— they were paunchy, insensitive, and easily manipulated by authoritarian dogmas. On the one side, playground slam-dunkers, jive-talkers and second-line parade dancers with an easy propensity for redistributing wealth; on the other, good ol' boys who, up until getting their badges and patrol cars, went slender-pole fishing by day and slammed each other around by night. Clashes were inevitable, but the 
 
white boys had the law on their side. 
Umm, but the air here is getting thick with sociology. We are discussing New Orleans, after all, the city Louis Armstrong said "has got that thing." (As for the identity of "that thing," Louis said, in the most Zen statement ever made by a westerner, "If you have to ask, you'll never know.") Perhaps it is time for a riff. 
"New Orleans" She went to the school of Miss Crocodile Where she learned to walk backwards 
And skin black cats with her teeth. Soon she could wear the loot of dead pirates Cook zee perfect gumbo And telephone the moon collect. But it took sixty-six doctors to fix her After she kissed that snake. 
New Orleans was buzzing. A Jamaican flower peddler and street singer named Bingo Pajama had been shot and killed by two off-duty policemen who claimed they were trying to make an arrest. Pajama, a suspect in the bizarre death of a fellow officer, made a threatening move, according to the cops. They pulled down on him with their .38 Specials. 
The black community was not swallowing that trash. Too often, in Louisiana, blacks suspected of having killed policemen were themselves slain by their arresting officers. It smacked of revenge by execution, and it had become routine. Also routine were the hearings in which the cops were cleared of any wrongdoing. It was the sort of situation that turned a second-liner's bile a dangerous hue, the sort that could build into a "race riot." 
 
Although Bingo Pajama was from out of town, a foreigner with a funny accent, a bum who kept bees but had no hive; a mysterious, clownish figure known well by none, the blacks of the city adopted him posthumously. They went so far as to send him off with a jazz funeral. 
Mourners poured out of the projects, out of the shotgun 
houses below Canal Street, out of barrooms and gumbo parlors, out of the Baptist church at Liberty and First and the Hoodoo church on Rampart, and with a mighty brass band leading the way (horns wailing in the modes of both Satchmo and Bird, drums recreating the phantom energies of the Congo), with umbrellas twirling (although the day was dry), feathers flashing, joints smoldering, bottles gurgling, and fingers snapping, they strutted and stomped, rambled and hooted, all the way to the French Quarter, through the Quarter, and back to the Central City again. A horse-drawn hearse bore the coffin, but there was no corpse in it. The police had the corpse and wouldn't release it. Inside the coffin was a bouquet of jasmine branches, crushed and faded but so potently sweet it perfumed the length of the parade. 
Although the funeral was typically merry, a wild, winding party ("In yo' face, Mr. Death") enjoyed by all, it was fueled by an ill-concealed cache of anger. Dark curses were shouted at police cars, and placards of somber protest appeared along the way. That night, an ancient work began behind locked shutters. Black candles were burned, bitter powders were sprinkled, crude objects were fashioned of wood or wax, pythons were addressed, and chickens were put to uses that would have shocked the pants off Colonel Sanders, not to mention Julia Child. 
There were formal protests, as well. A steady stream of black community leaders visited the police department and city hall, demanding justice. So great was the outcry that the mayor wasted little time in scheduling a hearing. At the insistence of blacks, and of white liberals, a special commission was appointed to conduct the investigation. To the dismay of "law-and-order" factions, only one policeman was named to the panel. 
According to reports, several people had witnessed the shooting of the Jamaican. Two had viewed it at close range. Two women, the story went, one white, one black. And the white woman was said to be tight with blacks. Why, it was ol" Madame Devalier, the French Quarter perfumer, a one-time supplier of Special 
Delivery Oil, she who was rumored to possess the secret of hurricane drops! 
So New Orleans buzzed. Black folks buzzed. White folks buzzed. Bingo Pajama's bees buzzed. And the bee buzz was the most disturbing of all. 
It was a tiny swarm: fifty bees at the outside, maybe only forty. Their number was to their advantage. A swarm of many thousands, as is customary in a honey colony, would have been easily tracked and cornered, but a fist of forty, flying in excess of a dozen miles per hour and climbing to altitudes loftier than New Orleans' tallest building, could be elusive, evading entomological patrols and escaping DDT barrage or apiarian capture. 
With his life, the bees left Bingo Pajama. Nobody saw them go. They flew away in the night with his soul. Only the pollen grains that the coroner found in the slain man's hair indicated that they had ever existed. 
Ah, but the next morning! When the streetlamps went out, the bees lighted up. Wearing the dawn like silver on their wings, they returned in a glassy phalanx to the scene of the crime. Like a glass spearhead come suddenly to life, like an animated dagger with an angry voice, like an electrified pineapple spike; like a darting fish made of noisy sparks, half full of fire and half full of cold, the swarm circled the death scene, diving and looping, again and again, a crazed cactus loose in the air, humming defiance, forty little spines dripping poison and pain. 
For most of the day, reporters, photographers, police investigators, sympathizers, and curiosity-seekers were held at bay. Those who challenged the swarm's territorial claim retreated quickly with burning welts about the neck and face. From time to time, the swarm would settle on the map of dried blood where their master had lain. It was as if they were feeding there. A newsman or a cop would grow brave, but at his approach—banzai!—the missile would launch itself, screaming toward target. 
In late afternoon, beekeepers were brought in. Like brides behind their protective veils, they wooed the golden phallus, but it would not surrender to them. It scorned their traps of honey, its forty tongues preferring to lick crusty blood. 
Curses and consternation abounded. From a nearby telephone booth, calls were 
 
made to universities and the Department of Agriculture. "This is not your common North American honeybee," said an entomologist gazing through binoculars. He was probably correct. According to an official handbook, "Stinging requires a bee to use twenty-two different muscles." These bees used twenty-three. 
At nightfall, the swarm departed, but it returned the next day. So did the media and the crowds. Barricades were set up. Traffic was snarled. The proud pragmatism of civilized intelligence was being insulted again by goofy nature. It was time for might to make things right. 
Spray teams were dispatched. Foggers from the swamplands. Experts at gassing mosquitos. Their Jeeps pulled trailers with compressors and hoses and metal tanks full of gaseous insecticides. They wiped out every cricket in the neighborhood and mutated countless future generations of mockingbirds. But the swarm took to the sky, disappearing through a trapdoor in a low-flying, and ominously dark, cumulus cloud. 
Thirty minutes later, it flew through an open window at city hall, where the chief of police was explaining to the district attorney that that very swarm had been used as a murder weapon by Bingo Pajama and would be useful as an exhibit during the hearing for the courageous officers who, in self-defense, had eliminated the mad Jamaican. "Here's your exhibit, Chief," yelled a mayoral aide, diving for cover. Exhibit B. 
Faces swollen and painted pink with calamine lotion, the city fathers looked like buffoons that evening on the six-o'clock news. 
The bees were not seen again until the next afternoon, when they followed Bingo Pajama's funeral parade along its entire route. None of the marchers was stung, and it was reported by a trombonist and a couple of second-liners that the swarm kept time with the band. 
After that, the bees played hide-and-seek. They were observed all over the city. They appeared in the Garden District, in the Irish Channel, uptown, downtown, in Audubon 
After that, the bees played hide-and-seek. They were observed all over the city. They appeared in the Garden District, in the Irish Channel, uptown, downtown, in Audubon Park, along the lakefront, the riverfront, on Metairie Ridge, and in 
the forgotten voodoo groves of Bayou St. John. Nobody could guess where they would strike next. They harassed cops on the beat, dive-bombed adulterous judges on the patios of Lake Pontchartrain love nests, interrupted work on the Mafia wharfs, and sent tourists running from Jackson Square, portraits half- painted, Sno-Kones half-eaten and spilled on the bricks. The press began to speak of the swarm as if it were a terrorist band. 
Like a necklace of gouged-out crocodile eyes—yellow-green and menacing, shiny and ancient—the renegade bees encircled New Orleans, a mosaic albatross that wouldn't lie still. 
Such was the situation in New Orleans when Priscilla ar- ' rived: a buzz of black anger, a buzz of white fear; a buzz of multicolored rumor, panic, .and superstition; a buzz of bees. 
Initially, she scarcely noticed. After two days and three nights on a Greyhound bus (the detective had refused to refund her retainer, and she was functioning far below the summit of her economic potential), her homecoming was rather numb. 
She headed directly to the Quarter, to Royal Street, to the Parfumerie Devalier, only to find the shop dark. It was shuttered and locked. After a night's rest on a lumpy mattress at a YWCA, she returned to the shop, truly expecting it to be open for business. Still it was closed. Moreover, with Christmas hardly a week away, the quaint little perfume-bottle nativity scene that had graced Madame Devalier's show window every December for as long as Priscilla could remember was nowhere in sight. 
Lingering over a cafe au lait at Morning Call, she speculated that the shop's closure was connected to the bottle of K23. It was not. It was connected to the buzz. 
I'll bet they're in Paris or New Yorfc, making some kind of deal, thought Priscilla. 
In feet, Lily Devalier and V'lu Jackson were nowhere near Paris. They were in Baton Rouge. 
A few hours after Bingo's shooting, threatening phone calls began to jangle into 
 
the shop. Rough voices warned Maclame and her assistant not to testify against the policemen who had blown the Jamaican down. "Whatever are we to do, cher?" asked Madame. "It could be the cops threatening us, or it could be the Klan." 
"Whut's de difference?" asked V'lu. 
As the public furor increased, so did the threats. Madame grew woozy and could no longer answer the phone. She would have her nose parked on the rim of Kudra's bottle, saying something such as, "You know, cher, I believe this to be a deceptively simple boof. A fine jasmine middle, a citrus top, and a single bottom. Oui, single. Three ingredients only. But, ooh-la-la, what could that bottom ..." And the phone would ring, and she'd turn woozy. V'lu would lift the receiver, and clear across the room Madame would hear the man. He had a voice like a biceps. 
"Who dat say dat?" V'lu would inquire. "The man who's gonna love lynching your black ass." Click. 
When Wiggs Dannyboy's most recent beet hit the floor upstairs, V'lu nearly fainted alongside Madame. Both were so convinced it was a firebomb that they actually smelled gasoline. 
Madame was conditioned not to complain to the police. Eventually, however, she complained to the press. The press told everybody in Louisiana. And when it was through telling them, it told them again. 
Meanwhile, the governor suggested to the mayor that it might be wise to move the hearing out of New Orleans, move it, say, to Baton Rouge. The mayor suspected the governor of wanting to bale a bit of political hay, but he didn't care. The mayor was scared of that hearing. He admitted to the governor that he was scared of demonstrations, scared of protests and violence. The governor could tell that the mayor was also scared of the bees. 
Although the hearing was not scheduled to commence until after the holidays, the governor had Madame Devalier and V'lu Jackson moved to a motel near the capital. They had separate rooms and were guarded by state patrolmen around 
 
the clock. V'lu spent the days reading Edgar Allan Foe in French. Madame sniffed at the bottle and addressed Christmas cards. She addressed no less than three to Priscilla in Seattle, for as the holiday approached, she felt increasingly guilty about the bottle. "It is Pris's boof, too," she said. Quote V'lu, "Nevermore." 
Priscilla, living close to the bone at the New Orleans Y, had her own guilt going. She wrote a long letter to Ricki, apologizing for having accused her falsely. She didn't post it, however. She decided she'd better first make sure Madame and V'lu had the bottle. 
Once she took notice of the buzz about her, the contentious whirr, the apprehensive whisper, the unpredictable golden hum, the vibrating mantras of panic and revenge, once her ear focused on the buzz, and her brain examined its origins, variations, and ramifications, Priscilla quickly learned that Madame and V'lu were in Baton Rouge. The address of their motel was a secret, however. Incoming calls were forbidden, and inquiries were curtly discouraged. Resigned to a wait of several weeks, she settled in at the Y and began to look for part-time work as a waitress. 
Naturally, she missed the dinner party at the Last Laugh Foundation. The party went on without her. A fresh group of scientists were introduced to Wolfgang Morgenstern, in the hope that this meeting would elevate the prestige of the foundation. 
Dr. Morgenstern showed up at table so breathless from jumping that he could barely chew his lettuce. 
Huxley Anne told everyone who'd listen about how she'd cleaned out the old greenhouse behind the mansion and was planning to cultivate flowers there: "My daddy's going to smuggle in rare jasmine plants from Jamaica, and I'm gonna be in charge of making them grow." The biologists on either side of her raised their eyebrows. "Jasmine, all right," whispered one to his wife. They'd heard the stories about Jamaican marijuana. 
Dr. Dannyboy presided, consuming impressive quantities of wine and issuing periodic pronouncements, usually preceded by a knock on his eye patch with 
 
whatever inanimate object lay handy. "The most glarin' failure o' the intelligentsia in modern times has been its inability to take comedy seriously. " Things such as that. 
At one point, Dannyboy announced, "Paris is yet another contribution o' the Irish. Look it up in your history books, gentlemen. A Celtic tribe called the Parisii founded the place some centuries before the birth of our Lord and Savior. Twas a gift from the Micks to the froggies to give them something to justify their arrogance." Several guests were offended by this, but Marcel LeFever was amused, and fully intended to get a lot of mileage out of it when he returned to France. 
In fact, Marcel and Wiggs hit it off famously. When a lonely (and horny) Priscilla telephoned Wiggs on Christmas Eve, Marcel was still there. "Your man is goin' to remain until after New Year's," Wiggs informed her. "He's infected with perfume, he's its master and its slave. Perfume is beauty to Marcel, 'tis his glory, his opiate, his samadhi, his breakfast sausage as well as his midnight champagne. Oh, to feel about something as passionately yet coherently as your man feels about perfume! That, darlin', is the key to the piggybank o' life. How I wish I could speak to him directly about beets." 
Priscilla felt a pinch of jealousy. "But what about me?" she very nearly whined. Then she recalled the bottle, the ace she might yet play. 
"Merry Xmas, Pris. If only I was there to put a little somethin' in your sock." 
"A big something," corrected Priscilla, feeling sweaty and weak. "And 'tis in me pants you'd be puttin' it." Her vulnerability to Wiggs was opening her up (as voluntary vulnerability often can) in unexpected ways. 
"Ha ha. Indeed. And, say, have ye had a glimpse o' the bees?" "Well, no, not personally ..." 
But just then the swarm rounded the corner, flying in wedge formation, silhouetted against the sunset, screaming like a cutting tool, and a few paces ahead of it, running for his life, his beard and cap flapping- wildly, his belly spilling feathers and his tin cup spilling coins, dashed Santa Claus. 
 
The old pagan festival came and went. Neither Seattle nor New Orleans would consent to strike a seasonal pose. Seattle was mild and rainy and as green as Bing Crosby's royalties. New Orleans was mild and sunny and quite accustomed to stringing lights in banana trees. 
Snows and ices decorated Concord, Massachusetts, you may be certain, but Alobar could spy no acre of greeting card tableau from his cell. He could see the famous Star of the East, however, and its gelid twinkle reminded him of his first Christmas, that commoner's winter in Aelfric when he learned, with some astonishment, that the face of an executed Eastern rabble-rouser had been carved in the pagan pumpkin. 
Marcel and Wiggs sat before a yule log, in a room in which there was scant necessity for blaze, and night after night, in conversation after conversation, rebuilt "reality" frqni the ruins they'd left it in the night before. They slept late. Afternoons, they assisted Huxley Anne in the greenhouse, where the child was tending, with precocious expertise, an enlarging accumulation of exotic plants. Dr. Morgenstern jumped for something approximating joy. 
Priscilla made the rounds of Mexican restaurants, but while there was no shortage in New Orleans of imperfect tacos, she failed to land a job. On New Year's Eve she got drunk and got laid. Upon that, it would be indiscreet to dwell, except to pass along the advice that before going home with a personage one has met in a French Quarter bar, one should make absolutely certain of their gender. Later, she was to refer to the episode, without bitterness, as "Ricki's revenge." 
Alobar boycotted the cell block Christmas party, preferring to sit alone in his cubicle and breathe, even though, thanks to his escalated aging, the sterile steel cubicle had begun to stink like a mouse nest or a potato bin. 
The "season" crab-walked by in its emotional shoes, then it was over, it was January 2, the Western world blew its nose, took two aspirins, packed pagan ornaments and plaster mangers to the attic, and set about finding ways to finance the recent indulgences. Bing! The clock, after its celestial wobble, was back on mechanical time, and precise, or, at any rate, measurable, or at least, normal things could happen. Alobar was paroled from prison, the hearings got underway in Baton Rouge, Wiggs (with some help from Bunny LeFever) figured out Where We Are Going and why it smells the way it does, and Huxley Anne became the youngest member ever of the Puget Sound Orchid Society. 

Upon learning of Alobar's release, Wiggs and Marcel jetted to Boston to greet him. Over bowls of borscht that resembled the steaming blood of Beowulf s monster, Alobar consented to accompany them back to the Last Laugh Foundation. 
"He almost looks a thousand," Wiggs said to Priscilla over the wire that night. "He's as wrinkled now as a lemon-suckin' prune, his hair has gone white, his torso has shrunk, and he walks stooped over like a dentist. Ah, but he's got the spirit still, and he claims he can recover his youth if he cares to. I've asked him in private if he won't pass the beet to Marcel, let him in on the K23 and all. He's thinkin' it over." 
Again, Priscilla felt an inflation of the green balloon. Striving to conceal her resentment and insecurity, she said, "Wiggs, remember that I said I was going to have a surprise for you? Well, the surprise is for Alobar, too. It's a great big surprise, and it will mean even more to Alobar than to you. It's not quite ready yet, but I think he should see it before he makes any major decisions." 
"Sure and that sounds swell to me, little darlin'. Maybe I'll be bringin' him to New Orleans in a week or two. Marcel is headin' there himself. To see V'lu. They've stayed in touch, and it would seem your man is bloody moo-eyed over her." 
"Ha ha," said Pris, thinking all the while, / wish you were bloody moo-eyed over me. 
The hearings in Baton Rouge lasted ten days. Hardly a session passed in which the two suspended policemen did not protest that the jasmine bouquet that the late Mr. Pajama pointed in their direction could have concealed a gun. 
"Yes, it could," the panel chairman finally agreed. "And the blind man's cane could hide a sword, and the wife's chicken and dumplings could be laced with razor blades, and the lunch boxes of school children could be ticking with bombs." 
It was the panel's recommendation that the cops stand trial, although as a 
 
compromise, they would be charged not with murder but manslaughter. When news of the compromise reached New Orleans, it did not exactly turn the Mississippi River into diet soda. 
Roosters were heard to squawk at midnight in Central City storefronts. 
A cross was burned in front of Parfumerie Devalier, blackening its show window and charring its door. 
The bees, which except for a daily fly-by of the Times-Picayune offices had been little seen of late, attacked in a single afternoon six policemen, five politicians, four whiplash lawyers, three used-car salesmen, and two fast-talking disc jockeys—and put the fear of Beelzebub the Bug God into an agnostic from Dallas. 
It was decided by the court that the trial should be conducted in Baton Rouge. The judge scheduled it for the middle of February. Concerned by the cross- burning, he ruled that Madame Devalier and V'lu Jackson be kept in protective custody until after the trial. 
With difficulty, Priscilla resigned herself to a wait. Yet she did not stand still. Having exhausted the Mexican restaurants of New Orleans as a potential source of gainful employment, she suddenly spun on her dais of habit and set off in a relatively new direction. Abandoning her long-standing obsession to the same fate as the cottage cheese she'd left in her refrigerator in Seattle, she accepted a job in a coffeehouse near Tulane University, where the clientele played chess, wrote poetry, and debated matters of cosmic import (subjects forbidden to "mature" intellectuals unless they first sign an oath to be dry and dispassionate). Inclined to insert her own opinions, especially when a discussion broached issues of life and death, Priscilla rapidly revived her reputation as a genius waitress. For example, she dazzled a party of students one evening by declaring, "To bfe or not to be isn't the question. The question is how to prolong being." 
And she almost believed it. 
Next thing you know, I'll be drumming on my eyelid with an espresso spoon, she thought. 
 
Since the spirit of Wiggs Dannyboy was upon her, and since Wiggs contended that longing for the future was as antilife as dwelling in the past ("nostalgia and hope stand equally in the way of authentic experience"), Priscilla decided that she must de-emphasize the role in her life of the perfume bottle and its promise of future financial bliss. She refused, however, to relegate her ambition for wealth to the back of the fridge where she'd shoved the allegedly perfect taco. After all, it was Wiggs who once said, "I love the rich." 
Actually, his statement in its entirety was, "The rich are the most discriminated- against minority in the world. Openly or covertly, everybody hates the rich because, openly or covertly, everybody envies the rich. Me, I love the rich. Somebody has to love them. Sure, a lot o' rich people are assholes, but believe me, a lot o' poor people are assholes, too, and an asshole with money can at least pay for his own drinks." 
Priscilla was forced to admit that she missed such pronouncements. The radium- tongued rascal has contaminated me, she thought. 
The radium-tongued rascal who had contaminated her, the windy cyclops who had brought both tornado and calm, fog and clear sky into her life, the defrocked anthropologist whom everybody, including Priscilla, suspected of having a bit too much fun, was on a collision course with death and tragedy. 
Disaster struck while he was high above the world and its cares, relaxing aboard a Boeing 747 in the company of Marcel LeFever and King Alobar. Sometime during that flight, as the fields and peaks soaked up sweet darkness beneath them, the crowd outside the Last Laugh Foundation in Seattle went mad. 
Somebody had supplied beer, cases of it, and many in the crowd had lost their reason in it. About seven o'clock, as much of Seattle was finishing its dinner, a dense, hot, rustic odor swept through the street, and as if it had one mind, one nose, the crowd spontaneously panicked. Something snapped in it, and it rushed the gate, tearing it from its hinges and throwing the guards aside. 
Disturbed and anxious, pursued by the smell, the people ripped loose the fairy door knocker and streamed into the mansion, where they raced from room to room, looking for the divine magic that had been denied them. And when they 
 
found nothing—no gurgling test tubes or sparking coils, no vials of purple elixirs or leatherbound books bursting with esoteric information, no files, even, that they might plunder; when they found merely a posh modern residence lacking so much as a hint of scientific activity and occupied only by a red-faced man who'd been skipping and leaping about in a bizarre dance, and a young girl playing with potted plants, then they truly panicked. 
They ravaged the furnishings, smashing chairs, coffeetables and lamps, defiling the white immortalist walls, hurling Escher prints through stained-glass windows. As mirrors shattered and food flew, several in the midst passed into further frenzy, went beyond the hot madness of disappointment and longing into the cold madness of fear and loathing, and seizing Papuan war clubs from above the fireplace, they bashed the skulls of Wolfgang Morgenstern and Huxley Anne Dannyboy. 
Like a fertilized condor egg, filled with blood and promise, the bald head of Dr. Morgenstern split open. He died instantly. 
Huxley Anne was not so heavily damaged, although when police arrived she was exhibiting no vital signs and was believed as dead as the professor. Nevertheless, oxygen and CPR were administered. After twenty discouraging minutes, a tiny birthday-candle flame of pulse began to flicker. 
She was taken to Swedish Hospital, a few blocks away, and by the time her father got there, physicians were venturing that she had a twenty-five-percent chance of living, although only a ten-percent chance of having escaped permanent brain damage. Should she survive, which was improbable, she would likely be, in terms most disparaging to the consciousness of beets, "no more than a vegetable." 
Naturally, the news traveled swiftly. It involved a famous scientist and the child of an infamous heretic, it involved the "occult" (for that is the context in which the press placed immortalistic research), it involved murder, a guarded mansion, and, probably, drugs. The media snatched it up and streaked with it, galloping toward tons of pay dirt, and Pris-cilla knew about it almost as soon as VViggs 
  
did. 
She heard about it at work. When it had sunk in, and that took a minute or two, she set down her tray, tables away from its destination, untied her apron, and walked out of the coffeehouse. "Where are you going?" yelled the fellow who operated the espresso machine. "Seattle," she replied. 
Of course, she had practically no money. Within minutes, she was back at the coffeehouse, pleading with the manager for an advance on salary. He refused, but when he saw the tears breaking loose, when he recognized that they were massed in huge numbers and might be expected to march, two abreast, for hours, he allowed her to call Seattle on the office phone. 
After hacking through several thousand feet of red tape, she managed to reach Wiggs at Swedish Hospital. 
"I'll be there as quick as I can get there," said Priscilla. 
"It isn't necessary," said Wiggs. He spoke with hardly any accent at all. "I appreciate it, but it isn't necessary." 
"I don't care. You'll need help." 
"Marcel and Alobar'are with me. Marcel's left an open bottle of her favorite scent by her bed. To call her back. Alobar has some ideas, too. Bandaloop stuff. I'm confident, Pris." 
"You sound pretty good. But I'm sure I can help you." 
"No. Huxley Anne's mum will be here by morning. She'd probably be uncomfortable if you were around." 
"Screw her comfort! Don't you care about me?" The instant she said it, she regretted it. 
"I do care. But right now my energy is totally with my daughter." 
"I'm sorry. I understand. You can call me if you need me. Here, or else they'll take a message at the Y." 
She hung up and after a heroic belt of the manager's bourbon, returned to duty. If Huxley Anne died, however, she'd proceed to Seattle with all possible haste, even if she had to steal the funds, because she and she alone knew that if Huxley Anne went, Wiggs would go, as well. 
At birth, we emerge from dream soup. At death, we sink back into dream soup. In between soups, there is a crossing of dry land. Life is a portage. 
That was the way Marcel LeFever had always looked at it. After his encounters with Dr. Dannyboy and Alobar, after the experience with little Huxley Anne, Marcel began to suspect that it might be more complex than that. He went so far as to consider that there might be more than one type of. afterlife experience, that there might be several, that there could be, in fact, as many different death- styles as there were life-styles, and "dream soup" was merely one of dozens from which the dead person might actually choose. 
It was pure conjecture, of course. Moreover, he much preferred to think about fragrance. Yet, wasn't fragrance somehow involved? In the case of Huxley Anne, at least it seemed to have played a part. Alobar and Dr. Dannyboy agreed that it had, although the physicians were equally convinced that it had not. 
The physicians had no explanation of their own, however, so Marcel was prepared to attribute the miraculous recovery to fragrance, or, rather, an interaction between the powers of fragrance and the powers of human spirit. Why not? 
It was a miraculous recovery, no one would deny that. The child lay comatose for nearly a month, neither advancing nor receding, just sort of standing hip-deep in the dream soup, connected to shore by, as they say, "artificial means," and then, toward midnight on Saint Agnes's Eve, her eyes popped open, she asked, in a completely normal voice, for SpaghettiOs and chocolate-chip cookies, and 
  
demanded to know why there was no television in her room. "Mmm, smells good in here," she said. Within days she was walking the corridors. Were there damaged parts in her brain, they were well concealed. 
When he felt that she was strong enough, Wiggs inquired if she had felt at any time, especially during the minutes immediately following the attack, that her soul had left her body. "Oh, Daddy!" she said, "Don't you know that when you die, your soul stops leaving your body?" 
"Uh, no. What do you mean?" 
"Our souls are leaving our bodies all the time, silly. That's what all the energy is about." 
"You mean the energy field around our bodies is the soul being broadcast out of the body?" 
"Kindalike that." 
"And at death this transmission stops?" 
"Yes. Can I have some ice cream?" 
"In a minute, darling. When your soul stopped leaving your body, what did it feel like?" 
Huxley Anne screwed up her face. "Well, kinda like a TV set that wasn't quite off and wasn't quite on. You know, the TV had cartoons in it, but it couldn't send them out." 
"But your, ah, TV set, it didn't go completely off?" 
"No. That would have been something different, being all the way off. I didn't want to go off without you, Daddy. I tried hard to stay on. I knew where you were because I could smell my White Shoulders, but it took a little while to get back on all the way and warmed up and everything. Can I have my ice cream now?" 
 
They say that February is the shortest month, but you know they could be wrong. 
Compared, calendar page against calendar page, it looks to be the shortest, all right. Spread between January and March like lard on bread, it fails to reach the crust on either slice. In its galoshes—and you'll never catch February in stocking feet—it's a full head shorter than December, although in leap years, when it has growth spurts, it comes up to April's nose. 
However more abbreviated than its cousins it may look, February feels longer than any of them. It is the meanest moon of winter, all the more cruel because it will masquerade as spring, occasionally for hours at a time, only to rip off its mask with a sadistic laugh and spit icicles into every gullible face, behavior that grows quickly old. 
February is pitiless, and it is boring. That parade of red numerals on its page adds up to zero: birthdays of politicians, a holiday reserved for rodents, what kind of celebrations are those? The only bubble in the flat champagne of February is Valentine's Day. It was no accident that our ancestors pinned Valentine's Day on February's shirt: he or she lucky enough to have a lover in frigid, antsy February has cause for celebration, indeed. 
Except to the extent that it "tints the buds and swells the leaves within," February is as useless as the extra r in its name. It behaves like an obstacle, a wedge of slush and mud and ennui, holding both progress and contentment at bay. 
James Joyce was born in February, as was Charles Dickens and Victor Hugo, which goes to show that writers are poor at beginnings, although worse at knowing when to stop. 
If February is the color of lard on rye, its aroma is that of wet wool trousers. As for sound, it is an abstract melody played on a squeaky violin, the petty whine of a shrew with cabin fever. O February, you may be little but you're small! Were you twice your tiresome length, few of us would survive to greet the merry month of May. 
Confined to its usual length, February still extracted a toll from Priscilla and New Orleans. On Groundhog Day, a car- 
petbagger freeze turned banana plants as black as seminary shoes, and night after night, the Mississippi .exhaled Yukon breath. The small boys who tap-danced 
for coins on Bourbon Street were forced to compete with their own chattering teeth. Aside from tap and chatter, the Quarter was so quiet it might as well have been in Salt Lake City. Even the bees took refuge from the chill. Where, was anybody's guess. 
As for the frost on Priscilla's personal pumpkin, it was neither thick nor withering, but typically Februarian, it was a long time melting. 
Once a week, approximately, she received a letter from Wiggs: one paragraph about Huxley Anne (she appeared to be completely healed, but the doctors, "taking no chances," were keeping her out of school); one paragraph about the restoration of the Last Laugh Foundation (Marcel made financial contributions, while Alobar, who had acquired carpentry skills over the centuries, helped with the actual work); a couple of paragraphs alluding to his new ideas about evolution; and a phrase or two of sexual innuendo. All in all, it wasn't enough to get a young woman in love through a lingering funk such as February. Nevertheless, she wrote him daily and practiced a fairly strict fidelity. 
About the time the trial began in Baton Rouge, she learned the exact whereabouts there of Madame and V'lu, but made no attempt to contact them lest she tip her hand. When they returned to New Orleans, she'd retrieve that bottle. If they had it, that is. February is the month for doubt. 
Because she was no longer up until dawn trying to make perfume, she was rested and energetic, and since meeting Wiggs, she mainly looked at life, even when it was studded with failures and misfortunes, with a subdued, irrational cheerfulness. So, though she had to battle impatience on several different fronts, and though February lay about her shoulders like a cloak of lead, Priscilla stayed afloat. 
Then came March. 
On the very first day of March, Wiggs telephoned to announce that Marcel and Alobar were heading to New Orleans 
for Mardi Gras. Wiggs himself would be joining them in a week or ten days, whenever the doctors gave Huxley Anne the green light. "Take care of them until I get there, please, Pris. Show them the sights. Once V'lu is back in town, 
 
you won't have to worry about Marcel, but in the meantime, he and Alobar will need a place to stay and a good spot to watch the parades. You know the city. Alobar's a touch high-strung. Still holding out on the K23. If you've got that surprise for him, it might do him good." 
"I'll do my best. When you come, will you . . . will you stay with me?" "Huxley Anne and I." "Oh. All right. Hurry." 
A contrarian, the owner of the coffeehouse made a practice of leaving town during Mardi Gras. He had a three-bedroom flat in the Garden District, and assuming that Marcel would pay, Priscilla sublet it for the first half of March. The master bedroom she claimed for Wiggs and her. And Huxley, damn it, Anne. « 
She took a bus to the airport and met the flight from Seattle. Marcel deplaned first. She recognized him from the perfumer's convention. His hair was still slicked back and parted in the middle, his suit was expensive, his cologne turned heads, his Vandyke beard shoveled the air in front of him as if he were digging in it, turning it over, searching for diamonds. Or worms. With an elegant gesture, he kissed Priscilla's hand. Then he wrinkled his sturdy nose as if he didn't quite approve of her smell. 
Alobar soon followed. Cocooned in the ill-fitting Robert Hall suit that he'd been issued upon parole from Concord Prison, he was obviously an old man— Priscilla would have guessed seventy-five—yet he revealed not a tremor of the fear or fragility that so often causes us to look with pity, or disgust, upon the old. If he was less arrogant than Marcel, he was no less self-confident. He moved through the world as if he was intimate with it, as if he belonged in it, as if there was not the remotest chance that he would fall down in it and break a hip. His manner was vague, but it was the vagueness of a mind distracted by important issues, not enervated by insufficient oxygen supply. In fact, his breathing was deep and smooth, so rhythmic as to be almost hypnotic, and when introduced to Priscilla, he drew in an especially long breath. And winked. 
They collected luggage, rented a car, and drove, bumper to bumper, into the 
 
hubbub and jubilee of Carnival. 
Technically, Carnival had commenced January 6, with the ball of the Twelfth Night Revelers, and had been underway throughout the downcast days of February, but so far Carnival had been a matter of club parties and society balls, closed to the public and made all the more private, all the more small, by the unusually low temperatures. Now, on the Thursday before Mardi Gras, itself— five days before climactic Fat Tuesday—it was sewing on sequins, dusting off cowbells, and ambling into the streets. On Saturday, ninety-six hours of uninterrupted spectacle and debauchery would begin. The parade of the Knights of Momus would, that very Thursday evening, prepare the way. 
Priscilla, Marcel, and Alobar were able to watch the Momus parade from the balcony of the sublet flat, where they sipped champagne and munched Cajun popcorn. For the Friday parade, they had to fight for space on the curbs of Canal Street. Saturday evening, they were back on the balcony for a third parade, and later that night, the three of them, en costume, attended a minor but nonetheless ornate ball to which Pris had wrangled invitations. There was something just a trifle unreal about dancing with a thousand-year-old man, Priscilla thought, particularly when the man was dressed as an astronaut chipmunk. 
No less than four major parades were scheduled for Sunday. As they sat around the kitchen table Sunday morning, deciding which one they, would attend, Marcel thanked Pris for her hospitality, admitting to her that the festivities in New Orleans were grander in every way than Carnival in Nice. 
That statement prompted from Alobar an expression of disappointment. 
"New Orleans Mardi Gras is a sham," he said. "So is Mardi Gras in Nice. It's all a sham these days. No, I am not living in the past, but believe me, some things have changed for the worse." 
He unbuttoned his shirt, for he was preparing to soak in a tub of hot water. "In olden times, Carnival had meaning. During the forty days of Lent, the forty days before Easter, almost the entire population would abstain from eating meat and drinking spirits. Many of them gave up sexual intercourse, as well, a most unhealthy expression of self-denial, I can attest, after my recent experience 
 
behind bars. Anyway, Carnival was a final fling, it was a last indulgence of rich foods and wine and lust before the severe austerity of Lent. When you're facing a forty-day fast, that last spree can be intense. It has physical significance as well as deep psychological penetration. The old Mardi Gras was charged with real meaning. Today ..." He sighed. "It's entertaining, but it's empty. It's just another big party. An opportunity for some to spend money and others to make money. It isn't connected to anything larger than itself. I've been a foe of Christianity all my life, but Christianity gave meaning to the fun and the rowdiness, made it more fun and more rowdy. You can't raise hell when you don't believe in hell." 
"Pardon, Alobar," said Marcel, "but Carnival predates Christianity, does it not?" 
"Ha ha. I'll say. By fifty centuries. It goes back to ancient Hellas—Greece—to the shepherds who worshipped a certain god named Pan. Pan." He sighed again. "We don't have Pan in our lives anymore, either." 
"So you say we have kept the form of Mardi Gras but lost the content?" "Yes. It's a shallow experience nowadays, and inevitably unsatisfying." Alobar excused himself and went to his bath. "He seems sad," said Priscilla. 
"He is not used to being old." "Even after a thousand years?" 
"During most of that time he was a man in the prime of life. He is amazing. He is stronger than he was a month ago. Younger, also. But, you see, Mademoiselle Pris, he needs a woman if he is to recover his youth. Perhaps every man does." Marcel closed his eyes. Priscilla could tell that he was thinking of V'lu. "Ah, yes, but Alobar cannot get a woman because he is too old. The double bind, they call it. You are correct, he is sad." 
Feeling even more despondent after his soak-and-cool, Alobar elected to forgo the parade, sending Priscilla and Marcel downtown alone. On Monday, he complained that the continuous beating of drums and frequent drunken whoops had kept him awake all night, and he might have remained in the flat again were it not for two unexpected events. 
"The Krewe of Pan is parading today," said Priscilla. "I'd forgotten there was a Krewe of Pan." 
"With so many krewes, it is only fair," said Marcel. 
"It'll be a sham," said Alobar. "A desecration, in fact. But I suppose I ought to go." 
While they were studying a map of the parade route, deciding exactly where they should station themselves for the most auspicious view, a United Parcel Service delivery van pulled up outside, and its driver rang their bell. Priscilla signed for the package. It was from Seattle. From Wiggs Dannyboy. 
The note inside was handwritten in red ink. It resembled something Noog the necromancer might have scratched into the lungs of a hen. Marcel and Alobar were baffled. "Let me have a peek," said Priscilla, wondering if an addled land crab had not deposited its string of eggs upon the page. 
"Here are your . . . Mardi Gras . . . costumes," she read. 
They unfolded the three piles of green satin, crimson velvet, and chicken wire and held them at arm's length, looking from one to the other in a manner both a- and be-mused. 
Beet suits. 
The three beets made their way through the French Quarter, seeking to root themselves at the intersection of Royal and Canal, where the Quarter met the business district. It was slow going. For blocks, they would be swept along by the throng, only to have the tide reverse itself so that they were forced to fight the current and barely moved at all. 
Through eyeholes in their stems, the beets were bombarded by garish colors and flashes of light popping from sunlit sequins, rhinestones, and glass. They passed among the swaying and bobbing fronds of a forest of feathers, overshadowed at times by towering headdresses that must, each one, have left a hundred birds shivering in their birthday suits, and at other times were caressed or tickled by wayward ostrich plumes. The muffled echo of an ocean of mythology welled up 
 
around them; a surf of Orientalism broke over them, spraying them with sultans and caliphs, prophets and potentates, gladiators and porters, harem girls and dragons, licentious Babylonians and passive Buddhas. This strange Asia shimmered in the sun, and the river of gods and monsters overflowed its banks, knocking the pinnings from under tourists and photographers. 
Countless pictures were snapped of the three beets, countless hands waved at them, countless lips smiled. Who among the thousands might have guessed that inside the ambulatory vegetables were a genius waitress, the world's finest perfumer, and a man older than the first mosquito to preen its proboscis in the fever marsh that was once New Orleans? But, then, who could guess the identity of any of the costumed or the masked? And wasn't that—and not the lust and the gluttony—the true beauty of Mardi Gras? A mask has but one expression, frozen and eternal, yet it is always and ever the essential expression, and to hide one's telltale flesh behind the external skeleton of the mask is to display the universal identity of the inner being in place of the outer identity that is transitory and corrupt. The freedom of the masked is not the vulgar political freedom of the successful revolutionary, but the magical freedom of the Divine, beyond politics and beyond success. A mask, any mask, whether horned like a beast or feathered like an angel, is the face of immortality. Meet me in Cognito, baby. In Cognito, we'll have nothing to hide. 
There was a definite distance, a gulf, between those in costume and those in daily dress. In the caste system of Carnival, the unmasked were instantly relegated to a position of inferiority. They were peasants, outsiders, mere spectators no matter how energetically they attempted to participate. For example, gangs of college boys, in beer-wet T-shirts and vomit-encrusted jeans raced through the Quarter shouting "Show yer tits! Show yer tits!" and when some woman upon a balcony would oblige, pulling up her front in a gesture of mammary theater, the boys would go berserk, hooting and slobbering, scratching themselves, slapping their thighs, punching one another and rolling on the cement, like a band of baboons shorn of its baboon dignity, but although these raunchy gangs had become increasingly a dominant force in Mardi Gras, there was a sense in which they were not a part of it at all; for all their lewdness, they were unconnected to the true lewd heart of Carnival, which must beat behind a disguise, grand or grotesque, in order to be heard by the gods, for whom Mardi Gras, ultimately, is defiantly and lovingly staged. 
 
As the beets neared Canal Street, the jostle of the multitudes grew turbulent. According to the news, it was the largest attendance in the history of New Orleans Mardi Gras. City fathers had feared that the bees might keep people away, but widespread stories of the swarm had had just the opposite effect. Thousands came to New Orleans with the expressed desire of seeing the bees. And bee costumes were the most popular, by far, that holiday. Human bees, solitary or in swarms, were everywhere. Legion were the pretty girls who were "stung" by insects six feet in height. 
As for the real bees . . . well, who knew? Numerous sight-ings were reported throughout the city, but officials were unable to confirm a single one. Madame Theo, a fortuneteller on St. Philip Street, claimed that the swarm had returned to Jamaica, a prospect that relieved many people and disappointed still more. 
In the all-black Zulu parade, at least one float had borne a sign, REMEMBER BINGO PAJAMA. 
The beets managed to reach Royal and Canal without being pulverized or pollinated. They pushed to curbside, where the espresso brewer from the coffeehouse, with his kid brothers, had staked a narrow claim. As prearranged, the beet named Priscilla gave each of the boys ten dollars of Marcel's money, and they whooped off to buy beer and to yell, "Show yer tits!" to anyone who was suspected of legitimately possessing tits. The beets took their place at the curb. 
Since the Pan krewe's parade had not yet begun to pass, the trio waited there, gaping through their stems at the intoxicated fantasy surrounding them. All at once, two vegetable cries penetrated the jazzy din. Not thirty feet from them, also on the curb, stood a beautiful black woman, less than en costume, yet not wholly straight. Apricot and artichoke were the colors of her gown, which clung to her like a child about to be separated from its parents, and cream was her turban, fastened with a glass jewel the size of half a peach. Aside from gown and turban, and spiky, pink, rather vaginal shoes, she wore no adornment, but she appeared as much a creature of Carnival—mysterious, alluring, fanciful—as any befeathered Sheba or she-bee in the multitudes. Perhaps it was because disguise and deception were second nature to her, or it could have been simply that she was one of those persons destined to be exotic even should they never stray from home. It was V'lu. 
At the sight of her, there was an immediate and abrupt schism among the beet population of Mardi Gras. One beet ' peeled off to the left, heading for Vlu. A second beet whirled, if one could be said to whirl in so dense a congregation, and began to fight its way down Royal Street, in the direction of Parfumerie Devalier. The third beet, abandoned, stood its ground to await the passage of Pan. 
Parfumerie Devalier was at the opposite end of Royal Street from the Canal intersection. It took the beet more than forty minutes to wade through the baboon boys, Dixieland high-steppers, and glittering transvestites who blocked its route to the shop. When it at last arrived, it found the shop unlocked. Madame Devalier was in the rear, seated upon the lime love seat, filling the space of two lovers, fingering rosary beads 
and nodding dreamily from the effects of the first hurricane drops she'd ingested in fifteen years. 
The cop trial had ended on Friday with a verdict of guilty. Seizing the opportunity, the judge issued sentence on Saturday: two years, suspended. The judge was well aware that there could be no race riot during Mardi Gras. Potential participants would be too distracted, too dispersed, too happy, too drunk. The sentencing barely made news. Without fanfare, Madame and V'lu had returned on Sunday, in time to dust off their hundreds of perfume vials and attend the Bacchus parade. 
Now, both under the influence of drops, V'lu had wandered off to view Pan, while Madame rested in the eye of the hurricane, hallucinating about Jesus, Wally Lester, a Mardi Gras baby, gris-gris, zombie butter, and the way things used to be. When the giant beet burst into the shop, she crossed herself and chanted: 
"Eh, Ye Y6 Conga! Eh! Eh! Bomba Y6 Ye!" 
With deliberation, the beet bustled to the rear, snatched the ancient perfume bottle from the table where Madame had been contemplating it, off and on, and before the stout woman could revive enough to shriek in protest, rushed out of the shop and into the masquerade melee. 
 

"Eh! Eh! Bomba Ye! Hail Mary, Full of Grace! Help, police! Police!" 
Cradling the precious bottle, shielding it from the flailing appendages of dancers and drunks, it took the big beet the better part of an hour to navigate the treacherous human river, but when it reached the Canal Street intersection, its fellow beets were there, one on either side of V'lu. 
"Alobar! Alobar!" Priscilla cried. She held the bottle up for him to see. 
Alobar blinked inside his beet stem, scarcely comprehending what he saw. More from instinct than reason, he reached out for the bottle, trembling with excitement, fear, and desire as visions of jasmine boughs, goat hooves, and lost love swam past his brain. 
At that moment, Priscilla tripped, pitching forward on her velvet-and-wire encircled belly. The bottle slipped out of her stubby fingers and went rolling into the path of the parade. 
Later, Priscilla swore that she'd been purposefully shoved, and she clung to that story even though Marcel insisted that no one had touched her, even though V'lu testified, "Her always had butterfingers and two leff feets." 
Alobar was more sympathetic. Just as Pris fell, he imagined that he'd registered a strong goaty odor, and while he automatically attributed it to the nostalgic atmosphere of the float that was passing—a lofty wagon decorated with enormous plaster sheeps' heads and festooned with purple grapes' as big as cannonballs, and on whose pinnacle there pranced in pastoral splendor, attended by nymphs in filmy tunics, the living image of old Goat Foot himself—Alobar was to consider, in retrospect, that the smell had been real and had originated at curbside. Was it an invisible arm that shoved her? 
The question was probably academic. What mattered was that the bottle rolled beneath the tractor wheel of the heavy float, and as the Great God Pan (to be sure, an insurance adjuster who'd once played linebacker for LSU) looked down 
  
upon the prone beet in the gutter with the clownish contempt that the ribald deity has forever held for the puny failures—and accomplishments—of humanity, it was crushed. There was a pop!, a gritty crunch, an earthy, mocking laugh from Pan above, and it was over. 
Two of the beets tore off their stems and leaves and ran into the street. The third beet quickly followed, pulled by V'lu. The four of them dropped to their knees in the wake of the float, surrounding a tiny pile of ground blue glass as if it were a sacred spoor that they were worshiping. 
Kudra's bottle, Pan's bottle, the K23 bottle, the bottle that three hundred years earlier had terrified an order of monks, beckoned to the Other Side, and negotiated the fishy seas, was now no more than a dust of glitter that might have sifted from a Carnival transvestite's cheeks. 
But from the sparkling blue powder there wafted a marvel-ous aroma, an effuvium both sweet and bitter, a fragrance as romantic as the pollen-stained teeth of the floral Earth, the sexual planet; wafted the secret fetish and daring charm that creates a new reality for men and women, transcending and transforming nature, reason, and animal destiny. 
In a matter of minutes, policemen forced the quartet back to the curb. Three of them moved reluctantly but with minimal resistance. The bottle had meant much to them, and they were in shock. The fourth, Marcel LeFevcr, to whom, on the other hand, the bottle had meant nothing, had to be dragged, kicking and screaming. 
"That scent, that scent!" he exclaimed, his voice inflamed by passion. "What is that scent? Le parfum supreme! Le parfum magnifique!" 
Several hours later, in the rear of Parfumerie Devalier, there occurred something akin to a wake. In turn, Alobar, Priscilla, Madame Devalier, and V'lu eulogized the bottle. And right when everyone was feeling its loss most keenly, Alobar, who, alone, still wore a beet costume—it was the most fulfilling garment he had worn since he was forced to abdicate his kingly ermine—lifted everyone's spirits by spilling the beans. Or, rather, the beets. 
"Beet pollen. Yes. Simply beet pollen. Beet pollen and nothing else. The pollen 
 
of the beet plant, if you please. Exactly, positively, emphatically beet pollen. Beet pollen, don't you see? The answer is beet pollen." 
"Incroyable!" exclaimed Marcel. 
"Sucre merde!" gasped Madame. 
"Why didn't I think of that?" asked Priscilla. 
"Beets, don't fail me now," said V'lu. 
"The theme was jasmine, of course. A deluxe jasmine, rare and costly. But the top note was merely citron—" 
"Would tangerine work as well?" inquired Madame. 
"Oh, tangerine is charmant," put in Marcel. "It might be superior to the citron." 
"—and the bottom was beet pollen. Good old everyday beet pollen." 
"Hardly everyday," said Priscilla. "I've never seen a speck of beet pollen in my life." 
"Me neever." "Imagine, cher! Vegetable spore in a fine boof!" 
The little group was so amazed by the revelation, and so fascinated by Alobar's subsequent tale of the intertwined roles of beet and fragrance in his life, that it failed to notice V'lu when she slipped out the door, a conspiratorial and purposeful set to her jaw. 
That edge of the Quarter at that hour was fairly free of Carnival congestion and noise, and V'lu was detained only by the lump that rose in her throat when she passed the place where Bingo Pajama, prince of blossom and song, had fallen bleeding at her feet. She paused briefly, bit her lower lip, and then proceeded to the telephone booth. It was occupied, but she was next in line. 
 
While she waited for the camera-laden tourist to complete his call, she focused on the sunset and calculated what the time of day must be in Paris, where it was already Fat Tuesday. She knew that Luc LeFever wouldn't have minded a call at an inopportune hour, but she wasn't sure about his successor, Claude. Still, how could Claude complain, once he'd heard the news? This perfume, this K23, could justify, a million times over, every cent they'd ever paid her. 
Born at Belle Bayou into a family of ex-slaves who'd elected to remain on the plantation as paid servants, generation after generation, V'lu grew up with the plantation owner's daughters. They were an old Creole clan who refused to speak English. The servants spoke mostly French, as well. When the owner sent his daughters to school in Switzerland, V'lu, age eleven, was sent with them—as companion, schoolmate, and unofficial maid. 
Upon graduation, the white girls went on to the Sorbonne, but V'lu, who'd piqued the girls by earning higher academic honors, was returned to Belle Bayou. The owner didn't know quite what to do with her. She was pretty, mannered, had an aptitude for chemistry and French literature, and could speak no English beyond the dialect she'd picked up in the rural ghetto. "Niggertown" English. He and his wife were trying to decide what might be best for her when his second cousin, Lily Devalier, arrived for a weekend visit and confessed she needed an assistant—and heir—in her perfume business. Voila! 
For fear she'd appear overqualified, the Belle Bayou owner hid her accomplishments from Lily, palming her off as a simple plantation girl. Moreover, he advised V'lu to speak only English in New Orleans, so that she'd fit in. V'lu followed that advice (she even changed her name to Jackson from Saint-Jacques), except when she might encounter some interesting visitor from France. 
Such a visitor was Luc LeFever, who'd come to Parfumerie Devalier one afternoon while Madame was napping, met V'lu, and swiftly recognized her worth. He took her to dinner that evening, seduced her (she'd had a few sexual encounters in Switzerland and found them to her liking), and put her on the payroll. Luc, after all, had had dealings with Lily Devalier and her fragrances and recognized that she had the potential, at least, to produce something of commercial interest. 
 
As an industrial spy, V'lu earned one hundred dollars a month, with the promise of a fat bonus should she deliver a formula LeFever might profitably market. With some misgiving, Claude saw to it that the arrangement continued after his father's death, and it was to fulfill her obligation and collect her bonus that V'lu now stepped toward the public telephone to dial Paris, collect. 
As V'lu reached for the door of the booth, a small yellow cloud materialized between her hand and the door. She drew back her arm. The cloud fragmented into forty or fifty "drops," spread like oversize dew upon the glass door. For a second, V'lu thought she might be experiencing a flashback hallucination, because the hurricane drops had worn off only an hour before, but just then someone in the street yelled, "The bees! It's the bees!" 
A crowd began instantly to form. "The bees!" "Where?" "There!" "Look, it's the bees!" The way the pedestrians were acting, the bees might have been Michael Jackson and Katharine Hepburn. Any minute, someone in the crowd would ask the bees for their autograph. 
V'lu swung her pink plastic handbag in the swarm's direction. "Shoo!" she said. "Shoo, bees! Go on now!" 
As one, the swarm lifted off the glass and with wings vibrating furiously, fell into their infamous saber saw formation. The flying blade splintered the air around V'lu's head. She yelped and ran for cover. 
Through the plate-glass window of a boutique across the street, she waited and watched. For nearly five minutes, the swarm patroled the space between the telephone booth and the boutique, then it flew off into the spreading bruise of dusk. 
V'lu was patient. She waited until it was completely dark. She waited a little longer. It was common knowledge that bees ceased to function at sunset. At last, when night lay on the Quarter like a fallen horse, V'lu cautiously opened the boutique door and slowly crossed the street. The coast was clear. 
Safely in the booth with the door shut, she reached out with a slender, magenta- 
  
nailed finger to dial the overseas operator. A bee lit on her finger. 
It appeared to be alone, a sleepy straggler left behind by the swarm. She snapped her wrist and flicked it off. She went to dial again, but there was a bee in the "O" hole. Uh-oh! 
Single file, they were invading the booth through the crack between the door and the pavement. Quickly, the booth was full of them. They swarmed over V'lu, squirmed up her nose, into her ears, down her cleavage, and under her armpits. A solitary bee, kamikaze all the way, buzzed up her dress and drilled its toxic stinger through her cotton underpants and into her perineum, that exquisite corridor separating a woman's back door from her front door, that smooth, hidden cusp that may be the most holy spot on the human body. 
V'lu screamed, dropped both the receiver and the card with Claude's number on it, and bolted from the booth. Swaying dangerously upon her pink, spiked shoes, she ran all the way back to Parfumerie Devalier, where she found the others in such a state of happy excitement that they neglected to notice that she was out of breath and sobbing. 
In V'lu's absence, important decisions had been made. 
Alobar had decided to dematerialize. Should he fail, then he would simply permit himself to die. "I have nothing else to prove by remaining alive," he said, "but a great deal to prove—and gain—by pursuing Kudra. Finally, I'm ready for that adventure. I've seen the bottle again, and I'm ready. I feel that Pan has, for better or for worse, made his parting gesture, and it would behoove me to do the same." 
It was his plan to attempt his dematerialization in Paris, on the rue Quelle Blague. He suspected it might be advantageous to leave this plane near where Kudra had left it. 
Meanwhile, he was turning over the K23 formula to Marcel. 
"That's overwhelmingly generous of you," said Marcel. "But what if you change your mind about this dematerialization?" 
 
"I won't. Nothing short of Kudra's return could change my mind." 
For his part, Marcel decided that LeFever would distribute the perfume internationally, it was ideally suited for that, but he insisted that Parfumerie Devalier actually produce the fragrance. It would be marketed under the Devalier label. At that, Madame Devalier began to blubber. 
Under Marcel's plan, LeFever would claim thirty percent of profits. Lily Devalier would be awarded fifty percent, with Priscilla and V'lu each receiving ten percent, until Madame's death, at which time they'd split her share. 
My, did V'lu feel bad. And it wasn't just the throbbing in her perineum. "How about Wiggs Dannyboy?" asked Priscilla. "Eh?" 
"He's done as much as anybody to get this perfume made— and he's never even smelled it." Pris described the trouble and expense to which Dr. Dannyboy had gone in delivering his clues—his beets—to those in the best position to duplicate K23. 
"Quite right," said Alobar. 
It was agreed that LeFever and Madame would each award Dr. Dannyboy four percent of their share, while Priscilla and V'lu would give him one percent apiece. 
"Live by the heart if you would live forever," said Alobar. 
They toasted to that with champagne, after which Madame and Priscilla went into a corner to hug and cry and reconcile; Alobar fell asleep on the love seat, dreaming of his lady; and V'lu took Marcel up to her room, where, in the best French tradition, he sucked the venom from her bee sting. 
The next day was Mardi Gras, but in the shop nobody really noticed. They held their private celebration, a celebration of the heart and the nose, which honored neither mindless excess nor neurotic asceticism, and from which neither church 
 
nor state would benefit—at least, not in any way that their leaders might have imagined. 
Madame introduced Marcel to the Bingo Pajama jasmine. His nostrils opening and closing like the flaps of an airplane in distress, he pronounced it more precious than any in the South of France and swore that he would send a team of botanists to Jamaica to track it down. "So this is what Wiggs and his little girl were wishing to grow in their greenhouse. Ooh-la-la-la-la-la-la-la." 
At noon they uncorked more champagne. They toasted Bingo Pajama. "And to mangel-wurzel," added Alobar. "Long may it wave," said Pris. Regarding Alobar in his beet suit, now crumpled (and flat in places) from having been slept in, Marcel said, "I wish I had my whale mask." Everyone was too polite to ask what he meant. In truth, Marcel no longer owned a whale mask. He had stuffed it into Uncle Luc's coffin just before it was sealed. 
The party agreed that it would call the perfume Rudra, a more romantic name than K23. Alobar was touched and pleased, although at one point Priscilla, only half facetiously, suggested christening it The Perfect Toco. 
Madame looked at her long and hard. 
They drank more champagne and sang breezy songs, mostly in French, for they spoke the language fluently except for Priscilla, who knew only six words in French, and that was counting menage a trois as three. 
They ate jambalaya (protection against the Humping Beast), drank yet more champagne, and waxed sentimental over Alobar, lamenting his proposed departure. 
"It's been a huge adventure, an exploration of possibility, the invention of a game and the play of the game—and not merely survival. But I don't mind going now. This is not the best of times, you know." 
"You're referring to the political situation?" 
"Oh, no, not that. Our political leaders are unenlightened and corrupt, but with rare exception, political leaders have always been unenlightened and corrupt. I 
 
stopped taking politics seriously a long, long time ago, therefore it's had practically no effect on the way I've lived my life. In the end, politics is always a depressant, and I've preferred to be stimulated. 
"No, my friends, what bothers me today is the lack of, well, I guess you'd call it authentic experience. So much is a sham. So much is artificial, synthetic, watered-down, and standardized. You know, less than half a century ago there were sixty-three varieties of lettuce in California alone. Today, there are four. And they are not the four best lettuces, either; not the most tasty or nutritious. They are the hybrid lettuces with built-in shelf life, the ones that have a safe, clean, consistent look in the supermarket. It's that way with so many things. We're even standardizing people, their goals, their ideas. The sham is everywhere. 
"But wait, now. Don't let me spoil the party. Things will change, eventually, believe me. You can count on change. Even now, I'm curious about what's going to happen next. And I'll be back, if I can get back. The perfume will guide me back, I feel that it will. 
"So make our perfume, my friends. Make it well. Breathe properly. Stay curious. And eat your beets." 
"Right," said Pris, under her breath. "And don't smoke in bed." 
Thus, their Fat Tuesday passed with some sadness, some gaiety, and much optimism. In the garbage-strewn, hungover hush of Ash Wednesday, a letter arrived from Wiggs Dannyboy. It slid through the slot with an appropriately soft sound, like a headachey matron folding her Mardi Gras fan. . 
Wiggs and Huxley Anne would fly in on Friday, the letter said. It said that it was raining in Seattle and that the greenhouse had been completely repaired. It concluded with a joke, an obscene suggestion, and a pronouncement or two. The pronouncements concerned Dr. Dannyboy's new theory of the evolution of consciousness. Perhaps because she had received the theory in bits and pieces, Priscilla hadn't paid much attention to it. Now, however, she sensed that Wiggs was attempting to make a major, radical statement, and she wondered if she shouldn't put it into focus. 
 
Gathering all the letters that he'd written to her since she came to New Orleans, she snipped out the relevant sections, placed them in her handbag, and left the sublet flat. She walked through the Garden District, stopping finally at a park bench in front of Charity Hospital. There, almost directly beneath the window of the ward where her daddy died, she pieced together the fragments of Wiggs's hypothesis. 
She wasn't positive that she accepted it or understood it. She wasn't positive that anyone else would accept it or understand it, or that anyone would care. She only knew that despite the numb torture of a champagne hangover, it made her want to go on living, a feeling she never quite got from the theories of Thomas Aquinas, Freud, and Marx. 
DANNYBOY'S THEORY 
(Where We Are Going and Why It Smells the Way It Does) 
To put it simply, humankind is about to enter the floral stage of its evolutionary development. On the mythological level, which is to say, on the psychic/symbolic level (no less real than the physical level), this event is signaled by the death of Pan. 
Pan, of course, represents animal consciousness. Pan embodies mammalian consciousness, although there are aspects of reptilian consciousness in his personality, as well. Reptilian consciousness did not disappear when our brains entered their mammalian stage. Mammalian consciousness was simply laid over the top of reptilian consciousness, and in many unenlightened—underevolved, underdeveloped—individuals, the mammalian layer was thin and porous, and much reptile energy has continued to seep through. 
When our remote ancestors crawled out of the sea, they no doubt had the minds offish. Smarter, more adventurous and curious than their fellows who remained underwater, but fish-minded, nonetheless. On the long swampy road to a primate configuration, however, we developed a reptile mind. After all, in those tens of millions of years, reptile energy dominated the planet. It culminated in the dinosaurs. 
As Marcel LeFever suggested in his address to the perfumers' convention, reptile consciousness is cold, aggressive, self-preserving, angry, greedy, and paranoid. 
Paul McLean was the first neurophysicist to point out that we still carry a reptilian brain—functional and intact—around in our skulls today. The. reptile brain is not an abstract concept, it is anatomically real. It has been carpeted over by the cerebrum, but it is there, deep within the forebrain, and consists of the limbic lobe, the hypothalamus, and, perhaps, other organs of the diencephalon. When we are in a cold sweat, a blind rage, or simply feeling smugly dispassionate, we may be sure that, for the moment, our reptile brain is in control of our consciousness. 
As the Age of Reptiles was drawing to a close, the first flowers and mammals appeared. Marcel LeFever believes that the flowers actually eliminated the great reptiles. Mammals also may have contributed to their egress (not "exit"), because for many early mammals there was nothing quite like a couple of dinosaur eggs for breakfast. 
At any rate, our ancestors had by then evolved brains that were both mammalian and floral in their formation. For reasons of its own, evolution allowed mammalian energy to hold sway, and the recently developed human midbrain or mesencephalon, which had folded over the old diencephalon, could be accurately labeled a mammal brain. 
Characteristics of mammal consciousness are warmth, generosity, loyalty, love (romantic, platonic, and familial), joy, grief, humor, pride, competition, intellectual curiosity, and appreciation of art and music. 
In late mammalian times, we evolved a third brain. This was the telencephalon, whose principal part was the neocortex, a dense rind of nerve fibers about an eighth of an inch thick that was simply molded over top of the existing mammal brain. Brain researchers are puzzled by the neocortex. What is its function? Why did it develop in the first place? 
LeFever has postulated that the neocortex is an expanded memory bank, and it certainly possesses that capability. Robert Bly thinks that it is connected somehow to light. If the reptile brain equates with cold and the mammal brain with warmth, then the neocortex equates with light. Ely's hunch makes a lot of sense because the third brain is a floral brain and flowers extract energy from light. 
Even prior to the mysterious appearance of the neocortex, our brains had strong 
floral characteristics. The whole brain is described in science as a bulb. The neurons of which it is composed have dendrites: roots and branches. The cerebellum consists of a large mass of closely packed folia, which are bundles of nerve cells described in the literature as leaflike. 
Not only do the individual neurons closely resemble plants or flowers, the brain itself looks like a botanical specimen. It has a stem, and a crown that unfolds, in embryonic growth, much in the manner of a petaled rose. 
In the telencephalon—the new brain—the floral similarity increases. Its nerve fibers divide indefinitely, like the branches of a tree. This process is called, appropriately, arborization. In the proliferation of those twiggy fibers, tiny deposits of neuromelanin are cast off like seeds. The neuromelanin seeds apparently are the major organizing molecules in the brain. They link up with glial cells to regulate the firing of nerve cells. When we think, when we originate creative ideas, a literal blossoming is taking place. A brain entertaining insights is physically similar, say, to a jasmine bush blooming. It's smaller, and faster, that's all. 
Moreover, neuromelanin absorbs light and has the capacity to convert light into other forms of energy. So Ely was correct. The neocortex is light-sensitive and can, itself, be lit up by higher forms of mental activity, such as meditation or chanting. The ancients were not being metaphoric when they referred to "illumination." 
With the emergence of the neocortex, the floral properties of the brain, which had, for millions of years, been biding their time, waiting their turn, began to.make their move— the gradual move toward a dominant floral consciousness. 
When life was a constant struggle between predators, a minute-by-minute battle for survival, reptile consciousness was necessary. When there were seas to be sailed, wild continents to be explored, harsh territory to be settled, agriculture to be mastered, mine shafts to be sunk, civilization to be founded, mammal consciousness was necessary. In its social and familial aspects, it is still necessary, but no longer must it dominate. 
The physical frontiers have been conquered. The Industrial Revolution has shot its steely wad. In our age of high technology, the rough and tough manifestations of mammalian sensibility are no longer a help but a hindrance. (And the vestiges 
of reptilian sensibility, with its emphasis on territory and defense, are dangerous to an insane degree.) We require a less physically aggressive, less nigged human being now. We need a more relaxed, contemplative, gentle, flexible kind of person, for only he or she can survive (and expedite) this very new system that is upon us. Only he or she can participate in the next evolutionary phase. It has definite spiritual overtones, this floral phase of consciousness. 
The most intense spiritual experiences all seem to involve the suspension of time. It is the feeling of being outside of time, of being timeless, that is the source of ecstasy in meditation, chanting, hypnosis, and psychedelic drug experiences. Although it is briefer and less lucid, a timeless, egoless state (the ego exists in time, not space) is achieved in sexual orgasm, which is precisely why orgasm feels so good. Even drunks, in their crude, inadequate way, are searching for the timeless time. Alcoholism is an imperfect spiritual longing. 
In a hundred different ways, we have mastered the art of space. We know a great deal about space. Yet we know pitifully little about time. It seems that only in the mystic state do we master it. The "smell brain"—the memory area of the brain activated by the olfactory nerve—and the "light brain"—the neocortex— are the keys to the mystic state. With immediacy and intensity, smell activates memory, allowing our minds to travel freely in time. The most profound mystical states are ones in which normal mental activity seems suspended in light. In mystic illumination, as at the speed of light, time ceases to exist. 
Flowers do not see, hear, taste, or touch, but they react to light in a crucial manner, and they direct their lives and their environment through an orchestration of aroma. 
With an increased floral consciousness, humans will begin to make full use of their "light brain" and to make more refined and sophisticated use of their "smell brain." The two are portentously linked. In feet, they overlap to such an extent that they may be considered inseparable. 
We live now in an information technology. Flowers have always lived in an information technology. Flowers gather information all day. At night, they process it. This is called photosynthesis. 
As our neocortex comes into full use, we, too, will practice a kind of photosynthesis. As a matter of fact, we already do, but compared to the flowers, 
our kind is primitive and limited. 
For one thing, information gathered from daily newspapers, soap operas, sales conferences, and coffee Hatches is inferior to information gathered from sunlight. (Since all matter is condensed light, light is the source, the cause of life. Therefore, light is divine. The flowers have a direct line to God that an evangelist would kill for.) 
Either because our data is insufficient or because our processing equipment is not fully on line, our own nocturnal processing is part-time work. The information our conscious minds receive during waking hours is processed by our unconscious during so-called "deep sleep." We are in deep sleep only two or three hours a night. For the rest of our sleeping session, the unconscious mind is off duty. It gets bored. It craves recreation. So it plays with the material at hand. In a sense, it plays with itself. It scrambles memories, juggles images, rearranges data, invents scary or titillating stories. This is what we call "dreaming." Some people believe that we process information during dreams. Quite the contrary. A dream is the mind having fun when there is no processing to keep it busy. In the future, when we become more efficient at gathering quality information and when floral consciousness becomes dominant, we will probably sleep longer hours and dream hardly at all. 
Pan, traditionally, presides over dreams, especially the erotic dream and the nightmare. A decline in dreaming will be further evidence of Pan's demise. 
Returning to information efficiency, science has learned recently that trees communicate with each other. A tree attacked by insects, for example, will transmit that news to another tree a hundred yards away so that the second tree can commence manufacturing a chemical that will repel that particular variety of bug. Reports from the infested tree allow other trees to protect themselves. The information likely is broadcast in the form of aroma. This would mean that plants collect odors as well as emit them. The rose may be in an olfactory relationship with the lilac. Another possibility is that between the trees a kind of telepathy is involved. There is also the possibility that all of what we call mental telepathy is olfactory. We don't read another's thoughts, we smell them. 
We know that schizophrenics can smell antagonism, distrust, desire, etc., on the part of their doctors, visitors, or fellow patients, no matter how well it might be visually or vocally concealed. The human olfactory nerve may be small 
compared to a rabbit's, but it's our largest cranial receptor, nevertheless. Who can guess what "invisible" odors it might detect? 
As floral consciousness matures, telepathy will no doubt become a common medium of communication. 
With reptile consciousness, we had hostile confrontation. With mammal consciousness, we had civilized debate. With floral consciousness, we'll have empathetic telepathy. 
A floral consciousness and a data-based, soft technology are ideally suited for one another. A floral consciousness and a pacifist internationalism are ideally suited for one another. A floral consciousness and an easy, colorful sensuality are ideally suited for one another. (Flowers are more openly sexual than animals. The Tantric concept of converting sensual energy to spiritual energy is a floral ploy.) A floral consciousness and an extraterrestrial exploration program are ideally suited for one another. (Earthlings are blown aloft in silver pods to seed distant planets.) A floral consciousness and an immortalist society are ideally suited for one another. (Flowers have superior powers of renewal, and the longevity of trees is celebrated. The floral brain is the organ of eternity.) 
Lest we fancy that we shall endlessly and effortlessly be as the flowers that bloom in the spring, tra-la, let us bear in mind that reptilian and mammalian energies are still very much with us. Externally and internally. 
Obviously, there are powerful reptilian forces in the Pentagon and the Kremlin; and in the pulpits of churches, mosques, and synagogues, where deathist dogmas of judgment, punishment, self-denial, martyrdom, and afterlife supremacy are preached. But there are also reptilian forces within each individual. 
Myth is neither fiction nor history. Myths are acted out in our own psyches, and they are repetitive and ongoing. 
Beowulf, Siegfried, and the other dragon slayers are aspects of our own unconscious minds. The significance of their heroics should be apparent. We dispatched them with their symbolic swords and lances to slay reptile consciousness. The reptile brain is the dragon within us. 
When, in evolutionary process, it became time to subdue mammalian consciousness, a less violent tactic was called for. Instead of Beowulf with his sword and bow, we manifested Jesus Christ with his message and example. 0esus Christ, whose commandment "Love thy enemy" has proven to be too strong a floral medicine for reptilian types to swallow; Jesus Christ, who continues to point out to job-obsessed mammalians that the lilies of the field have never punched time clocks.) 
At the birth of Christ, the cry resounded through the ancient world, "Great Pan is dead." The animal mind was about to be subdued. Christ's mission was to prepare the way for floral consciousness. 
In the East, Buddha performs an identical function. 
It should be emphasized that neither Christ nor Buddha harbored the slightest antipathy toward Pan. They were merely fulfilling their mytho-evolutionary roles. 
Christ and Buddha came into our psyches not to deliver us from evil but to deliver us from mammal consciousness. The good versus evil plot has always been bogus. The drama unfolding in the universe—in our psyches—is not good against evil but new against old, or, more precisely, destined against obsolete. 
Just as the grand old dragon of our reptilian past had to be pierced by the hero's sword to make way for Pan and his randy minions, so Pan himself has had to be rendered weak and ineffectual, has had to be shoved into the background of our ongoing psychic progression. 
Because Pan is closer to our hearts and our genitals, we shall miss him more than we shall miss the dragon. We shall miss his pipes that drew us, trembling, into the dance of lust and confusion. We shall miss his pranksterish overturning of decorum; the way he caused the blood to heat, the cows to bawl, and the wine to flow. Most of all, perhaps, we shall miss the way he mocked us, with his leer and laughter, when we took our blaze of mammal intellect too seriously. But the old playfellow has to go. We've known for two thousand years 
that Pan must go. There is little place for Pan's great stink amidst the perfumed illumination of the flowers. 
Just recently, a chap turned up in New Orleans who may have been the prototype 
of the floral man. A Jamaican, they say, named Bingo Pajama, he sang songs, dealt in bouquets, laughed a lot, defied convention, and contributed to the production of a wonderful new scent. In some ways, he resembled Pan. Yet, Bingo Pajama smelled good. He smelled sweet. His floral brain was so active that it produced a sort of neocortical honey. It actually attracted bees. 
When Western artists wished to demonstrate that a person was holy, they painted a ring of light around the divine one's head. Eastern artists painted a more diffused aura. The message was the same. The aura or the halo signified that the light was on in the subject's brain. The neocortex was fully operative. There is, however, a second interpretation of the halo. It can be read as a symbolized, highly stylized swarm of bees. 
On Thursday, Priscilla packed her belongings, including Dr. Dannyboy's theory, and moved into Parfumerie Devalier. The coffeehouse owner was returning and wanted his flat back. Marcel and Alobar checked into the Royal Orleans Hotel for their remaining days in New Orleans. 
Thursday night, Madame cooked a gang of gumbo (Down, Big Fellow, down, boy!), and they dined together above the shop. After dinner, Marcel presented Madame with a check for $250,000 so that she might get Kudra underway: modern equipment and additional employees would be required. V'lu and Priscilla received $25,000 apiece as advance on royalties. 
The money filled Pris with a great Buddhistic calm. It left her no less klutzy, though. On her way to the toilet, she walked into a door, loudly and painfully banging her head. Her eye required an ice pack, her headache required something stronger than aspirin. Madame administered a single hurricane drop in a glass of orange juice. "This is the last, cher," Madame said to V'lu, who was trying to work up a headache of her own. Madame washed the rest of the foamy liquid down the sink. V'lu shed a silent tear, but somewhere near the terminus of the sewer line, a Lake Pontchartrain fish or two would soon be nodding out in school. 
Thanks to the dream powers of the drop, Priscilla overslept on Friday. By the 
  
time she bathed, dressed, deposited her check in the bank, and snared a taxi, the early flight from Seattle had already landed. 
Wiggs and Huxley Anne waited in the sunshine outside the terminal. They were patient. They felt relieved to have escaped the rain. If raindrops were noodles, Seattle could carbo-load Orson Welles and have enough left over to feed Buffalo on Columbus Day. 
It's unclear who saw the swarm first. A porter, perhaps, or a post-Carnival tourist catching the shuttle to the Holiday Inn. Maybe several people saw it simultaneously, for when the cry went up, "The bees! The bees!" it was a chorus of voices. This was a sober group of businessmen, convention delegates, redcaps, and drivers, and nobody seemed particularly thrilled by the sudden appearance of the famous insects. Nobody except Wiggs Dannyboy, that is. 
Wiggs stepped out onto the asphalt and lifted a benign, expectant face skyward, like the good-guy earthling in a flying-saucer movie. The bees ignored his gesture. They buzzed the area two or three more times, then flew directly for Huxley Anne. 
Many in the group screamed, but a horrified hush fell over them when the bees landed on the little girl's head. 
"Don't move!" someone said, in a stage whisper. "Don't move!" Huxley Anne wasn't moving. The bees weren't moving much, either. 
Once they had established their position, evenly distributed, rather like a skullcap atop the child's head, the bees stilled their wings, drooped their antennae, bent their knees, rested the thousand facets of their compound eyes, withdrew their tubed tongues and barbed stingers, and sort of settled in. 
Huxley Anne looked at Wiggs. He smiled encouragingly. 
The paralysis of the onlookers was finally broken when a driver started up his van. "I'll get the cops," he yelled out the window. 
"You do and I'll rip your esophagus out," said Wiggs. He moved toward the van. "Turn that engine off." 
The startled driver did as he was told. Nobody else in the crowd moved a 
muscle. 
Slowly, Wiggs walked over to Huxley Anne. "You're okay, aren't you, darling?" he asked. When she nodded, the onlookers gasped. But the bees didn't stir. At close range, Wiggs could detect a slight pulsation of each bee's abdomen, as if it were absorbing something through osmosis. 
"Where can you rent a car around here?" Wiggs asked. A redcap pointed nervously. 
Wiggs took Huxley Anne's hand, and as the others looked after them with bulging eyes, they walked off toward the airport perimeter. 
While Dr. Dannyboy filled out the required forms, Huxley Anne stayed out of sight at the rear of the car agency, admiring some hibiscus that grew there. 
By the time Priscilla's taxi arrived at the airport, father and daughter—and bees —were pulling out of the lot, burning rubber, and scattering the crushed oyster shell that New Orleans used for gravel. 
"This is the big one!" Wiggs sang from the wheel. "This one is bigger than Carlos Castaneda and Levi-Strauss put • together! Bigger than the bomb! Bigger than rock 'n* roll!" Then he added, "Of course, the next time she goes to the hairdresser, there may be a bit of a problem." 
Priscilla didn't hear him. In fact, she never heard from him again, although rumors were later to reach her that he had moved to an orchid farm in Costa Rica, or else a jasmine plantation in Jamaica. 
Priscilla took to her bed and remained there all weekend. She felt like a can of cheap dog food that had been ruptured by a railroad spike. Something mealy and ugly might have oozed out of her, except for the fact that the twenty-five- thousand-dollar deposit receipt made a highly effective Band-Aid. 
Material things anchor one in life much more firmly than purists would like to 
  
believe. 
We seem to face an enemy who, no matter how many times we win, will best us in the end. He has so many allies: time, disease, boredom, stupidity, religious quackery, and bad habits. Maybe, as Dr. Dannyboy has postulated, all these things, including disease and our relationship with time, are merely bad habits. If so, an ultimate victory is possible. For individuals, if not for the mass. And maybe evolution—playful, adventurous, unpredictable, infuriatingly slow (by our standards of time) evolution—will rescue us eventually, according to a master plan. 
Meanwhile, we are beleaguered. We hold the pass. The fragile hold the pass precariously, hiding behind boulders of ego and dogma. The heroic hold the pass a bit more tenaciously, gracefully acknowledging their follies and absurdities, but insisting, nevertheless, on heroism. Instead of shrinking, the hero moves ever toward life. Life is largely material, and there is no small heroism in the full and open enjoyment of material things. The accumulation of material things is shallow and vain, but to have a genuine relationship with such things is to have a relationship with life and, by extension, a relationship with the divine. 
To physically overcome death—is that not the goal?—we must think unthinkable thoughts and ask unanswerable questions. Yet we must not lose ourselves in abstract vapors of philosophy. Death has his concrete allies, we must enlist ours. Never underestimate how much assistance, how much satisfaction, how much comfort, how much soul and transcendence there might be in a well-made taco and a cold bottle of beer. 
The solution to the ultimate problem may prove to be elemental and quite practical. Philosophers have argued for centuries about how many angels can dance on the head of a pin, but materialists have known all along that it depends on whether they are jitterbugging or dancing cheek to cheek. 
By Sunday evening, Priscilla was feeling slightly better, feeling less like a dented can of cheap dog food than like a dented can of expensive dog food. Alpo instead of Skippy. 
For the diversion that was in it, she switched on the television. On the Sunday 
 
Night Movie, a small boy named Jesse Jonah was pedaling his bike into the voracious vacuum of a black hole with a message from the Security Council of the United Nations. "I've been here before," said Priscilla. She changed channels and found a magazine-format documentary program. 
After exposing corruption and chicanery in two governing bodies and three major industries, the program focused on a new dance craze that was sweeping Argentina. 
"They call it the bandaloop," said the announcer, "and everyone is doing it." Priscilla sat up in bed. 
On the screen, the dancers were skipping and bounding about the floor in a kind of exaggerated polka. Every once in a while, they would stop, execute a little backward and forward jitterbug step, then, yelling "Bandaloop!" they would jump straight in the air, up and down, five times. 
Priscilla sat more erect. "Morgenstern," she whispered. 
"But the bandaloop is more than just another dance fad," the announcer said. "It's a health fad, as well. Supposedly, it' can add years, even decades, to your life." 
A familiar face appeared on the screen. 
"The man who is singularly responsible for the bandaloop epidemic is a veteran Argentine accordion virtuoso named Effecto Partido." 
Priscilla leaned forward. 
"A respected amateur ethnomusicologist, Senor Partido last year accompanied a small group of scientists, including the late Nobel prize-winning chemist, Wolfgang Morgenstern, into the most remote area of the Patagonian wilderness. 
Partido's interests were musical, but the scientists were there to investigate the habits of a little-known tribal people whose average life span was said to exceed one hundred and forty years. The scientists have yet to comment, but according to Partido, the secret of the tribe's longevity was the dance they performed several times each day: the bandaloop." 
The camera panned to dancers in a Buenos Aires night spot, then back to a close- up of Effecto, who, Priscilla perceived, was looking youthful and fit, indeed. 
"Theese dance she make zee blood happy, zee bones happy. I don't know how explain eet, but theese dance she celebrate that we are not, you know, died already." 
As the announcer chuckled, the camera panned to a warehouse, painted bright pink. "The bandaloop requires so much space that the traditional tango clubs of Argentina can only accommodate three or four dancers at a time. So Effecto Partido acquired an empty warehouse near the Buenos Aires waterfront and converted it into a bandaloop club. The place is jammed every night of the week —and Effecto Partido, who also leads the band and takes frequent accordion solos, is South America's newest millionaire. His nightclub, by the way, is called Priscilla." 
"I call it for zee only woman I ever love," said Effecto. Priscilla bandalooped out of bed. 
For fifteen minutes or so, the former genius waitress paced the floor. Then she got the idea to telephone Ricki. 
"Hello." "Bartender, I'd like some Alpo on the rocks with a twist of railroad spike." "I don't make house calls. Who is this?" "You don't recognize the one who did you wrong?" "Pris! Maybe I do make house calls. Where are you?" "Still in Louisiana. Ricki, it's so good to hear your voice." "It's good to hear you. You asshole." 
"I'm sorry, Ricki. I was positive you had my bottle. I'm prepared to eat a lot of crow." 
"I'd rather you eat something else." 
"You're a dirty-talking woman." 
"It's not just talk." 
"Can you forgive me, Ricki?" 
"Hey, I was a jerk myself. But, look, the Daughters got another grant coming up. This time—" 
"No, I don't need it anymore. How're things at El Papa Muerta, by the way? Customers still complaining that there're only nine hundred islands in their thousand-island dressing?" 
"Yeah, they don't realize the peso's been devalued." "Ricki, you want to go to Argentina?" "Does the Pope want to play Las Vegas? What're you talking about?" 
"I'm not kidding. I'm going. You would not believe the past four months of my life. The people I've met, the stuff I've learned, the things that have been happening to me. ..." 
"Try me." 
"Okay, what would you say if I told you a dying god knocked me down and broke my perfume bottle?" 
" 'Don't cry for me, Argentina.' " "You want to go to Argentina?" "What's happened to your junkie boyfriend?" 
"He's not a junkie, and he's not my boyfriend! I guess he never was my boyfriend. I don't know anymore. He's amazing. Incredibly amazing. But he's sure not in love with me. He came to New Orleans Friday and then turned right around and left, without seeing me. I think it has something to do with his daughter—" 
"The gift of the Magi." "What?" "In the Bible. The Magi brought frank incest and mirth." "Ha ha. I didn't know you read the Bible." "Only the good parts. There's a lot about me you don't know." "You want to go to Argentina tomorrow?" "I'm off tomorrow. Why not? Why're we going to Argentina?" "To join my ex-husband." "Wait a minute. Are we talking manage a trois?" 
Priscilla paused. "I'm not sure what we're talking. I only know that I seem to require a man of a certain age—and that you're the only real friend I have. I don't know what we're gonna do in Argentina, but one thing I can tell you ..." 
"What's that, Pris?" "Whatever it is, it may be possible to do it for a long, long time." 
The night sky over Paris was the color of beet juice, a result of red lights and blue lights reflecting upon the gun-metal gray of the clouds. The sky was sorrowful and disheveled, like the head of an old musician. Heavy with music, it nodded uncontrollably, strands waving, as if keeping time, against its will, to the cabaret piano that was the heartbeat of Paris. Through breaks in the overcast, a dandruff of pale stars could be seen. 
Emerging from the dim lobby of the LeFever Building into the dimmer street, Claude LeFever didn't notice the sky, but looked first left, then right, then left again. He knew that he was early, but he hoped that his car and driver might be early, as well. No such luck. 
 
Claude turned up the collar of his cashmere topcoat. It might have been spring in Nice, but winter winds had not moved completely off the rue Quelle Blaque. Chilled and impatient, still Claude was fond enough of the street to stand in it, his back to the edifice that smell had built. 
Although the law prohibiting skyscrapers had been amended for thirty years, the LeFever Building remained the sole high-rise in that neighborhood. The rest of the block was oblivious to what, in the modern world, passed for progress. With a mixture of frustration and affection, Claude surveyed the cafes and bicycle shops, and the cathedral, of course, and wondered how a city whose name meant fashion to the world could, decade after decade, get away with conforming to archaic ideas. Paris was like his cousin Bunny, he thought: faithful to tradition, on the one hand, in a constant state of upheaval on the other. 
As his eyes swept the street, the door of the darkened bicycle shop next door creaked slowly open, and a somnambulistic figure, as evocative as a silhouette in a period cinema, joined him on the rue Quelle Blaque. Claude thought the person might be a burglar, his outlines distorted by a sack of loot, but instead of hurrying away, the figure stood there, drinking in the neighborhood as Claude himself had done. 
Since the figure was not threatening, was, in fact, compelling, Claude approached it. He was instantly glad, for it proved to be a woman, a dark, Asian woman, quite beautiful, but dressed in a seventeenth-century costume and behaving as if drunk or drugged. When the woman saw Claude, she drew her hand to her mouth and gasped. Evidently, he appeared as odd to her as she to him, yet she did not seem overly afraid. 
"I thought I was back," the woman said. Her French was formal, old-fashioned. "But now I am unsure." 
"What do you mean?" asked Claude. 
"It is not the same as it was. My shop is full of silver wheels. There is a tower next door so tall I cannot find its top. And you, sir ..." 
She seemed actually in shock. She must be on some drug, Claude thought. Got loaded at a costume party, no doubt, but what was she doing in a locked bicycle shop? "Uh, how long have you been gone?" he asked. 
"Only an hour or two." 
He chuckled. "Well, my dear, nothing's changed in the past couple of hours, I assure you." He told himself that he should walk away, but he stayed. She was so exotic, .so lost and lovely. Despite an otherworldly aloofness, she radiated an erotic heat that melted his customary caution and reason. Even should she prove to be an actress on heroin, and not the creature of marvel that she seemed, he nevertheless craved her company. His loins tingled, not merely with lust but with a kind of spiritual adventurism, almost Promethean in character, as if he might steal something from her (from her lips, her breasts, her breath) that would allow him to surpass himself. He hoped that his limo was stuck in traffic again. 
"Where have you been?" 
Kudra didn't hesitate. "I have been on the Other Side," she said. For the first time, she looked into his eyes. 
Claude felt weak. It was a result of the eye contact, not her reply. He thought that she meant the other side of the Seine. 
"And how are things on the other side?" He hoped he didn't sound flip. 
"Oh, sir . . ."A tremor ran the length of her, causing her voluptuous flesh to quiver like the throat of a lovesick frog. Her bustle gown was lacy and had three- quarter-length sleeves, with which she wore neither muff nor gloves. Assuming that she was cold, Claude draped his topcoat about her shoulders. 
"Actually," said Claude, "I much prefer the Right Bank. Did you really find it so unpleasant over there?" 
"Oh, I would not describe the Other Side as unpleasant, sir. It is quite beyond the scope of words such as pleasant or unpleasant." 
Her seriousness made him smile. "Impressed you, hey? Well, how would you describe it?" 
Kudra neglected to answer right away. Instead, she searched the block, pivoting stiffly, like a figurine atop a music box, to stare back into the bicycle shop. She was looking for someone, although in her dazed state she may have been confused as to his precise identity. 
Gradually she turned to Claude again, fixed him with a hypnotic gaze, and began a monologue so lengthy and bewildering that had it come from any mouth but hers, he would have done something rude. As it was, there was no question of interruption. She spoke softly and slowly, as if in a trance, and Claude, himself, became entranced. Her manner, her voice, her heat, her scent combined to hypnotize him, binding him with spider wire, wrapping his mind in a web of vision so thick that he could actually see the scenes she described as vividly as if he were dreaming them. 
Released with a sudden puff from the electromagnetic convulsions of dematerialization, Kudra finds herself inside a covered wharf, an enormous building of damp granite and soiled marble, extending for two hundred yards or more beyond the shore of some dark sea. 
Obviously a terminal, the wharf is teeming with travelers of every race, nationality, and era of time, arriving, departing, waiting. 
The travelers murmur, occasionally they moan, but they do not converse among themselves. They hustle in. They bustle about. They stand in long lines. They go. 
Although Kudra's body feels normal and intact, there is something insubstantial, almost vaporous, about most of the others. She is soon to learn that that is because they are dead. They have left their bodies behind and are walking about in mental projections, in their ideas of their earthly bodies. They have fleshed themselves in their imaginations of themselves, which explains why the majority of them are rather handsome. 
Only the dematerialized are housed in actual bodies, and in all the throng, there are but two or three of these. The dematerialized, moreover, are exempt from the rules and regulations governing the dead. Conductors in white uniforms herd the dead arrivals into groups, form the groups into lines, single-file, but Kudra is allowed to roam at will. 
The conductors seldom speak, but they act with irresistible authority. Their faces are radiant, their movements fluid and fluttery. Kudra is reminded of snowflakes, of the fluttering pages of books upon which poems in white ink have been written. 
Acutely aware of her own smell, for there is no trace of odor among the dead masses, Kudra wanders throughout the great wharf, which, though miserably 
crowded, is steeped in a solitude more complete than any she has ever known. 
No newspapers are for sale in the station, no sweets or tobacco. Travelers arrive. They go. They arrive in streams, through wide marble portals, carrying neither luggage nor souvenirs. But where is it they go from here? To find out, Kudra pushes to the head of a line. All lines, it turns out, lead to the same place: the Weighing Room. 
Timidly, Kudra slips into the room, where she is surprised to find a tall, androgynous figure, half priest and half harlequin, wielding a gleaming knife. 
One by one, the dead approach the harlequin priest. With a swift, practiced stroke, he (or she) cuts out their hearts. 
Upon a stone altar, there is a set of scales. The scales are ordinary, made of brass, not gold. On the left balance, there is a single hawk-brown feather. 
The harlequin priest passes each freshly rooted heart to 
his/her assistant, a young woman in a white tunic. The assistant lays the heart upon the right balance. If the heart is heavier than the feather—and time after time it is—the person is motioned to the rear of the room, where he or she joins another line, this one filing down steps that lead to the docks. 
At regular intervals, ships moor at dockside. The ships are sleek and luminous. In fact, they seem fashioned entirely of light, a cold light, as staid and ordered as a Victorian drawing room. The heartless dead board the ships, which, once loaded, sail away at tremendous speeds. In a matter of seconds, they are no more than distant stars in the obsidian night of ocean. 
The woman in the snowy tunic notices Kudra. She smiles. "Do you understand what is happening here?" she inquires. "We weigh their hearts. Should a person possess a heart that is as light as a feather, then that person is granted immortality." 
"Indeed? Are there many?" 
"Few. Precious few, I am sorry to say. One would think that people would catch on. Those who pass the test are usually rather odd. The last was a tall black fellow with bee dung caked in his hair. The ordinary rarely beat the scales." 
"Where do they go, then, all those who fail?" Kudra pointed toward the water, where another ship of light was just whooshing away, leaving a milky wake. 
"To the energy realms." "Never to return?" The woman shrugs. "As energy, perhaps. As light." "But the ones who pass the test . . . ?" 
"The immortals? They are free to take any direction they like. Free to embark on a sea voyage, to return to your world, or to some different world." She places yet another heart upon the balance, squealing with delight when it does not send the balance dish plummeting to the altar top. "Look," she says to Kudra. "Look at this one. Now here is one that comes fairly close." 
This organ was ripped from the corpulent breast of a jolly-faced troubadour. He doesn't comprehend the commotion, but he is winking at Kudra, rubbing his belly, and looking as if he'd gladly trade his butchered heart for a pint of ale. 
"Had he combined his hedonism with a pinch more wisdom, had he poured slightly less into his gullet and slightly more into his soul, he might have made it," says the weigher of hearts. "Still, he earns a pink ticket." 
She hands the troubadour something strongly resembling a carnation petal and motions him to a side door. Kudra follows him and learns that this door, too, leads down to the water, but to an empty dock. From above, the woman signals him to wait. 
For quite a long time, the troubadour stands there. To relieve his tedium, he whistles a tune, a medieval ballad of courtly love. Suddenly, he is silenced in mid-whistle, his lips periwinkled in a frozen pucker. A ship is pulling into view. 
As it nears dockside, Kudra sees that it is a barge, of considerable length, and canopied with pink linen, from whose edges fringe and tassels dangle. The barge is hung with paper lanterns, in which candles blaze gaily. Scattered about the deck are tables and chairs, resembling those of an inn, and here sit people eating spicy southern foods and sipping beer and pineapple coolers. Minstrels with droopy black mustaches wander the deck, strumming guitars. Women in 
shoes with heels like daggers dance, rattling tambourines all the while and cooing lubricious phrases to the many parrots that occupy crude wooden cages. From below deck, a katzenjammer of libidinous voices is heard. On the side of the barge, the name Hell has been painted. 
Despite the fact that there's no odor to give magnitude to the foods on deck or to the sex below, the passengers seem merry. Kudra believes that she recognizes one of them. Unless she is mistaken, it is Fosco, the calligrapher from the Samye lamasery. He is at table, in repartee with a pair of elderly Chinamen, whom he addresses as Han Shan and Li Po. They hurl lines of spontaneous poetry at one another, each trying to top the last, often slapping the tabletop and laughing wildly. Kudra waves and waves, but it is impossible to get Fosco's attention. The dead have little interest in the living, she surmises. 
The barge scrapes against the dock with a careless rasp. The captain, a seedy Spaniard in a comic-opera version of a military uniform, leans over the rail and takes the troubadour's pink ticket. Once the fellow is aboard, the vessel floats lazily away, bound for unknown sprays. 
As the barge departs, it turns, affording a view of its starboard side. On this side, the vessel wears a different name entirely. Heaven is what it says. 
Kudra returns to the scales. The young woman is hard at work, testing hearts, assaying the precious metals of the life well-lived. "How did you land this job?" asks Kudra. 
"I was not feather-light, but I was feather-bright," she answers. 
"I am not sure 1 understand. Yet I cannot help but notice that we strongly resemble one another, you and I." 
"Indeed we do." "Are we related? Am I an incarnation of you? Or something?" 
"What makes you suppose that you would be an incarnation of me, rather than me of you?" She giggles and shakes her skunk-black curls. "It is so amusing the way that mortals misunderstand the shape, or shapes, of time." 
"I am not sure I understand." 
"And I cannot help you understand. In the realm of the ultimate, each person must figure out things for themselves. Remember that, when you return to four Side. Teachers who offer you the ultimate answers do not possess the ultimate answers, for if they did, they would know that the ultimate answers cannot be given, they can only be received." 
Kudra nods. She looks around her. Once one is accustomed to it, the scene on the wharf is neither dreadful nor thrilling. It is, as a matter of fact, fairly boring, an ongoing performance of bureaucratic routine. Death is as orderly as life is disorderly. 
The weigher looks up from the scales. "Perhaps you ought to be going," she suggests. 
"fes. I should. But . . . how does one get out of here? Must I once more dematerialize?" As exciting as dematerialization was, Kudra was not looking forward to an immediate encore. Spiraling, ring by ring, through that zone of spin and crackle, was more exhausting than a month in a rope yard. 
"That will not be necessary. There is a doorway on yonder side of the station." 
Kudra stares in that direction. She is less than assured. "This place is so huge," she says. "There are so many doors." 
"Do not worry. Yow shall find it. There is a sign above the door." "What says the sign?" "Erleichda." "Pardon?" 
There is a ledge on the altar, caked with dirt and blackened by blood from the dripping of the strange fruit that is weighed there. With her finger, the woman writes the word upon the ledge. 
Thanking her, Kudra studies the letters until they are memorized. "One last question, if I might," says Kudra. "Why are there no odors here?" 
"Outside the portals of our station, there is a holding area, brilliantly illuminated. Had you arrived in the usual fashion, you would have been detained there until it was positively determined that you wished to be dead. The holding area teems with thousands of odors of every description; it is a vast net of odors, a clearinghouse of odors, the odors of a billion personal lifetimes, each separate and distinct. But once having accepted their demise, and having been admitted to the terminal, the dead can no longer smell nor be smelled. Otherwise it would be too difficult for them. Smell evokes memories. If smell were permitted here, the dead would still be connected to life and could not, therefore, accept their fate. As long as there is odor, there is hope of life everlasting. Because you carry odor, my lady, your presence here is potentially disruptive. Do you notice the uncomfortable manner in which the dead regard you? They cannot see you, they can only see what is dead, and they cannot really smell you, either, yet, still they sense something. Smell is like that. Did you realize that a ghost is but a dead person who has not completely lost his ability to smell? Smell is the sister of light, it is the left hand of the ultimate. It fastens the eternal to the temporal. This Side to That Side, and thus is highly sensitive; volatile, if not dangerous. So go now, dear lady, go in good scent and good fortune. It is not the last time, perhaps, that our paths shall cross." 
Kudra says good-bye and rejoins the hoard in the terminal, moving with some difficulty against the flow. Despite the jostling—were the travelers more physically substantial, her global breasts might have been pounded into flatcakes—she decides to have a quick peek, a sniff, outside the main entrance before searching for her escape. 
She pushes through heavy traffic until she is standing in the portals, beneath the mammoth stone archway, facing an immense plaza that is without a pigeon, without an ant, without a leaf or the shadow of a leaf, yet teeming with people of every description, each and every one basking in a soft but relentless light. Some of the people are marching systematically toward the portals, others approach obliquely, hesitantly, while still others are sitting about the plaza looking as if they had been camping there for days or weeks, with no real mind to come inside. 
As the weigher has promised, the plaza is smelly. It is, in fact, an ocean of scent in which the travelers are bobbing, each clinging, at first, to his or her favored aroma as if to a life preserver. Often, their final action before entering the wharf is to inhale one parting whiff of whatever it was—a child's blanket, a backyard 
garden, a mother's kitchen, a horse, a factory, an artist's brush, an opium pipe— that was keeping them afloat. 
As one man, sniffing, enters the portals, he accidentally brushes against Kudra. He is red-nosed, rough-edged, proletarian, less than young, but creased with such a mischievous, insouciant smile that Kudra finds herself thinking that this one is a likely candidate for a pink ticket, a berth on the barge called Hell—or is it Heaven? As he takes his last, sniff, he is practically pressed against Kudra, so that it is she whom he smells and not the memorable cargo of his terminated life. 
Kudra is sorely embarrassed, for her jasmine perfume has long since weakened and its residue is mixed, she is certain, with grime and sweat and the body's other ardent emissions. However, the man's grin only widens at the unexpected lungful of her, and as he passes, in his hospital gown, through the marble gates, he heaves a sigh and mutters in a language alien to her, "The perfect taco." 
Puzzled by what he might have meant and ashamed that she interposed herself between him and his farewell taste of earthly existence, she feels that she had better be getting back to where she belongs. She seems to recall a companion from whom she has become separated. A bit apprehensively, she reenters the wharf and makes her way laboriously to the distant wall. Indeed, there are doors aplenty there, but eventually she does come upon the one to which she was directed. It is marked neither EXIT nor ENTRANCE but 
ERLEICHDA. 
And it is the right door. 
So absorbed had Kudra been in the telling, Claude in the listening, that the limousine managed to glide unnoticed to a stop beside them. By the time the driver got out and opened the rear door of the long black Mercedes, Kudra was finished, but the spell held them, like moths pinned to a blowing curtain. At last, the driver cleared his throat, piercing the membrane surrounding them. Claude blinked and wiped moisture from his brow. The driver wondered how his employer could be perspiring on such a night. "Will you join me?" asked Claude. Even as he asked, he was assisting Kudra into the car. What sort of weird carriage she was boarding she had not a clue, but after the events of the past few hours, she was prepared to accept virtually anything. The door closed. They sat in the leather-scented darkness, thighs touching, eyes open but unseeing, like 
waking dreamers, asleep yet lit by dizzy lamps, prey to some silky fever. And in that condition they were driven to Orly Airport, where Claude was to greet his cousin, Marcel the Bunny, Marcel's new wife, V'lu, and a certain friend of theirs, a man named Alobar. 
THE BILL 
For Darrell Bob Houston 
THE BEET IS THE MOST INTENSE of vegetables. 
The onion has as many pages as War and Peace, every one of which is poignant enough to make a strong man weep, but the various ivory parchments of the onion and the stinging green bookmark of the onion are quickly charred by belly juices and bowel bacteria. Only the beet departs the body the same color as it went in. 
Beets consumed at dinner will, come morning, stock a toilet bowl with crimson fish, their hue attesting to beet's chromatic immunity to the powerful digestive acids and thoroughgoing microbes that can turn the reddest pimento, the orangest carrot, the yellowest squash into a single disgusting shade of brown. 
At birth we are red-faced, round, intense, pure. The crimson fire of universal consciousness burns in us. Gradually, however, we are devoured by parents, gulped by schools, chewed up by peers, swallowed by social institutions, wolfed by bad habits, and gnawed by age; and by the time we have been digested, cow style, in those six stomachs, we emerge a single disgusting shade of brown. 
The lesson of the beet," then, is this: hold on to your divine blush, your innate rosy magic, or end up brown. Once you're brown, you'll find that you're blue. As blue as indigo. And you know what that means: 
Indigo. Indigoing. Indigone. 

amoebae leave no fossils. They haven’t any bones. (No teeth, no belt buckles, no wedding rings.) It is impossible, therefore, to determine how long amoebae have been on Earth.
Quite possibly they have been here since the curtain opened. Amoebae may even have dominated the stage, early in the first act. On the other hand, they may have come into existence only three years—or three days or three minutes—before they were discovered by Anton van Leeuwenhoek in 1674. It can’t be proven either way.
One thing is certain, however: because amoebae reproduce by division, endlessly, passing everything on yet giving up nothing, the first amoebae that ever lived is still alive. Whether four billion years old or merely three hundred, he/she is with us today.
Where?
Well, the first amoeba may be floating on his/her back in a luxurious pool in Hollywood, California. The first amoeba may be hiding among the cattail roots and peepers in the muddy shallows of Siwash Lake. The first amoeba may recently have dripped down your leg. It is pointless to speculate.
2
tomrobbins
The first amoeba, like the last and the one after that, is here, there and everywhere, for its vehicle, its medium, its essence is water.
Water—the ace of elements. Water dives from the clouds without parachute, wings or safety net. Water runs over the steepest precipice and blinks not a lash. Water is buried and rises again; water walks on fire and fire gets the blisters.
Stylishly composed in any situation—solid, gas or liquid—speaking in penetrating dialects understood by all things—animal, vegetable or mineral— water travels intrepidly through four dimensions, sustaining (Kick a lettuce in the field and it will yell “Water!”), destroying (The Dutch boy’s finger remembered the view from Ararat) and creating (It has even been said that human beings were invented by water as a device for transporting itself from one place to another, but that’s another story). Always in motion, ever-flowing (whether at steam rate or glacier speed), rhythmic, dynamic, ubiquitous, changing and working its changes, a mathematics turned wrong side out, a philosophy in reverse, the ongoing odyssey of water is virtually irresistible. And wherever water goes, amoebae go along for the ride.
Sissy Hankshaw once taught a parakeet to hitchhike. There is not much in that line she could teach an amoeba.
For its expertise as a passenger, as well as for its near-perfect resolution of sexual tensions, the amoeba (and not the whooping crane) is hereby proclaimed the official mascot of Even Cowgirls Get the Blues.
And to the first amoeba, wherever it may be, Even Cowgirls Get the Blues would like to say happy birthday.
Happy birthday to you.
WELCOMETOTHE RUBBERROSERANCH
it is the finest outhouse in the dakotas. It has to be.
Spiders, mice, cold drafts, splinters, corncobs, habitual stenches don’t make it in this company. The hands have renovated and decorated the privy themselves. Foam rubber, hanging flower pots, a couple of prints by Georgia O’Keeffe (her cow skull period), fluffy carpeting, Sheet-rock insulation, ashtrays, an incense burner, a fly strip, a photograph of Dale Evans about which there is some con- troversy. There is even a radio in the outhouse, although the only radio station in the area plays nothing but polkas.

Of course, the ranch has indoor facilities, flush toilets in regular bathrooms, but they’d been stopped up during the revolution and nobody had ever unstopped them.
Plumbing was one thing the girls were poor at. Nearest Roto-Rooter man was thirty miles. Weren’t any Roto-Rooter women anywhere, as far as they knew.
Jelly is sitting in the outhouse. She has been sitting there longer then necessary. The door is wide open and 4
tomrobbins
lets in the sky. Or, rather, a piece of the sky, for on a summer’s day in Dakota the sky is mighty big. Mighty big and mighty blue, and today there is hardly a cloud. What looks to be a wisp of cloud is actually the moon, narrow and pale like a paring snipped from a snowman’s toenail.
The radio is broadcasting “The Silver Dollar Polka.”
What is young Jelly thinking, in such a pensive pose?
Hard to say. Probably she is thinking about the birds. No, not those crows that just haiku-ed by, but the birds she and her hands are bamboozling down at the lake. Those birds give a body something to think about, all right. But maybe she is thinking about the Chink, wondering what the crazy old coot is up to now, way up yonder on his ridge. Maybe she is thinking about ranchly finances, puzzling how she’s going to make ends meet. It is even possible that she is pondering something metaphysical, for the Chink has more than once subjected her to philosophical notions: the hit and miss of the cosmic pumpkin. If that is unlikely, it is still less likely that she is mulling over the international situation— desperate, as usual. And apparently her mind is not on romance or a particular romantic entity, for though her panties and jeans are at her feet, her fingers drum dryly upon the domes of her knees. Perhaps Jelly is thinking about what’s for supper.
On the other hand, Bonanza Jellybean, ranch boss, may just be looking things over. Surveying the spread from the comfort of the privy. Checking out the corrals, the stables, the bunkhouse, the pump, what’s left of the sauna, the ruins of the reducing salon, the willow grove and cot-tonwoods, the garden where Delores teased a rattlesnake on Monday, the pile of hair dryers still rusting

among the sunflowers, the chicken coop, the tumbleweed, the peyote wagon, the distant buttes and canyons, the sky full of blue. Weather’s hot but there’s a breeze today and it feels sweet, swimming up her bare thighs. There is sage smell and rose waft. There is fly buzz and polka yip. Way off, horse lips flutter; she hears the goats at pasture and the far, faint sounds of the girls tending the herd. The bird herd.
evencowgirlsgettheblues5
A rooster clears his sinuses. He’s loud but absolutely nothing compared to what
those birds can do if the hands don’t keep them quiet. They’d better!
Still sitting, Jelly focuses her dreamy gaze on the rooster. “Someday,” she says to the empty seat next to her, “if that Sissy Hankshaw ever shows up here again, I’m gonna teach her how to hypnotize a chicken. Chickens are the easiest critters on Earth to hypnotize. If you can look a chicken in the eyes for ten seconds, it’s yours forever.”
She pulls up her pants, shoulders her rifle and ambles off to relieve the guard at the gate.
Welcome to the Rubber Rose. The largest all-girl ranch in the West.
PA RT
 
I
Nature’s got a hankering after experiments.
—Trader Horn

1.
it is not a hear t: light, heavy, kind or broken; dear, hard, bleeding or transplanted; it is not a heart.
It is not a brain. The brain, that pound and a half of chicken-colored goo so highly regarded (by the brain itself), that slimy organ to which is attributed such intricate and mysterious powers (it is the self-same brain that does the attributing), the brain is so weak that, without its protective casing to support it, it simply collapses of its own weight. So it could not be a brain.
It is neither a kneecap nor a torso. It is neither a whisker nor an eyeball. It is not a tongue.
It is not a belly button. (The umbilicus serves, then withdraws, leaving but a single footprint where it stood: the navel, wrinkled and cupped, whorled and domed, blind and winking, bald and tufted, sweaty and powdered, kissed and bitten, waxed and fuzzy, bejeweled and ignored; reflecting as graphically as breasts, seeds or fetishes the omnipotent fertility in which Nature dangles her muddy feet, the navel looks in like a plugged keyhole on the center of our being, it is true, but O navel, though we salute your motionless maternity and the dreams that 10
tomrobbins
have got tangled in your lint, you are only a scar, after all; you are not it.)
It is not a ribcage. It is not a back. It is not one of those bodily orifices favored for stuffing, nor is it that head-strong member with which every conceivable stuffable orifice somewhere sometime has been stuffed. There is no hair around it. For shame!
It is not an ankle, for her ankles, while bony, were ordinary, to say the least.
It is not a nose, chin or forehead. It is not a biceps, a tri-ceps or a loop-of-Henle. It is something else.

2.
it is a thumb. The thumb. The thumbs, both of them.
It is her thumbs that we remember; it is her thumbs that have set her apart.
It was thumbs that brought her to the clockworks, took her away, brought her back. Of course, it may be a disservice to her, as well as to the Rubber Rose, to emphasize the clockworks—but the clockworks is fresh and large in the author’s mind right now. The image of the clockworks has followed the author through these early sentences, tugging at him, refusing to be snubbed. The image of the clockworks tugs gently at the author’s cuff, much as the ghost of Duncan Hines tugs at the linen tablecloths of certain restaurants, little that he can eat now: long time no cheese omelet.
Still, as is well known, our subject’s thumbs brought her to myriad other places besides the clockworks and to myriad other people besides the Chink. For example, they brought her to New York City and, there, before the gentleman Julian. And Julian, who looked at her often, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 11
looked at her well, looked at her from every angle, exterior and interior, from which man might look at woman—even Julian was most impressed by her thumbs.
Who was it who watched her undress for bed and bath?
It was Julian. Whose eyes traced every contour of her delicate face and willowy body, invariably coming to rest on her thumbs? Julian’s. It was Julian, sophisticated, sympathetic, closed to any notion of deformity, who, nevertheless, in the final analysis, in the sanctuary of his own mind’s eye, had to regard her thumbs as an obtrusion on the exquisite lines of an otherwise graceful figure—as though Leonardo had left a strand of spaghetti dangling from the corner of Mona Lisa’s mouth.

3.
the normal rectal temperature of a hummingbird is 104.6.
The normal rectal temperature of a bumblebee is calculated to be 110.8, although so far no one has succeeded in taking the rectal temperature of a bumblebee. That doesn’t mean that it can’t or won’t be done. Scientific research marches on: perhaps at this moment, bee proctologists at Du Pont . . .
As for the oyster, its rectal temperature has never even been estimated, although we must suspect that the tissue heat of the sedentary bivalve is as far below good old 98.6
as that of the busy bee is above. Nonetheless, the oyster, could it fancy, should fancy its excremental equipment a hot item, for what other among Creation’s crapping creatures can convert its bodily wastes into treasure?
There is a metaphor here, however strained. The author is attempting to draw a shaky parallel between the manner in which the oyster, when beset by impurities or disease, 12
tomrobbins
coats the offending matter with its secretions, thereby producing a pearl, a parallel between the eliminatory ingenuity of the oyster and the manner in which Sissy Hankshaw, adorned with thumbs that many might consider morbid, coated the offending digits with glory, thereby perpetuating a vision that the author finds smooth and lustrous.
The author did not choose Sissy Hankshaw for her thumbs per se, but rather for the use that she made of them. Sissy has provided this book with its pearly perspectives, just as the clockworks—where there is tick and tock enough for everyone—has supplied its cosmic connections; just as the Rubber Rose has generated its rather warm rectal temperature.

4.
sissy hankshaw arrived at the Rubber Rose—and, subsequently, the clockworks —as she had always arrived everywhere: via roadside solicitation. She hitchhiked into the Rubber Rose because hitchhiking was her customary mode of travel; hitchhiking was, in fact, her way of life, a calling to which she was born. Regardless of what luck her other eight digits grabbed onto, her thumbs carried her to many wonderful times and places and finally they carried her to the clockworks as well.
Even had she been common of thumb, however, she might have bummed a ride into the Rubber Rose, for she was without private transportation, and no train, bus or plane goes near the ranch, let alone the clockworks.
A woman came hitchhiking into a remote region of the Dakotas. She rolled in like a peach basket that had swallowed a hoop snake. It was nothing. She made it look easy.
She had the disposition for it, not to mention the thumbs.
That woman did not come to stay. She meant to leave e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t
h e b l u e s 13
no more tracks in the hills of Dakota than a water bug might leave on a double martini. She rolled in effortlessly, her thumbs wiggling like the hula hips of Heaven. She planned to leave the same way.
But plans are one thing and fate another. When they co-incide, success results. Yet success mustn’t be considered the absolute. It is questionable, for that matter, whether success is an adequate response to life. Success can eliminate as many options as failure.
At any rate . . . Just as there were ranch hands, politically oriented, who objected to the 8 × 10 glossy of Dale Evans in the Rubber Rose outhouse on the grounds that Miss Evans was a revisionist, a saddlesore (as they put it) on the long ride of cowgirl progress, there were interested parties who objected to Sissy Hankshaw’s being identified with the Rubber Rose on the grounds that Sissy is

not a true cowgirl and that, despite her friendship with Bonanza Jellybean et al., despite her presence during the revolt, she was only temporarily and peripherally involved with the events that took place on that hundred and sixty acres of lipstick criminal moonlight. Their contention is not without merit. How we shape our understanding of others’
lives is determined by what we find memorable in them, and that in turn is determined not by any potentially accurate overview of another’s personality but rather by the tension and balance that exist in our daily relationships.
That the axis around which Sissy’s daily involvements revolved was a result of her physical condition is obvious, and it is equally true that whatever memorable or epiphanic impact this singular woman has had on us occurred in a context quite removed from the Rubber Rose—or, at least, as the cowgirls themselves saw the Rubber Rose. It cannot be denied, however, that Sissy Hankshaw came not once, but twice, to the ranch, as well as to that place that, because therein occurs both a measuring and a transvaluation of time, we are obliged to call the “clockworks.” She came in different seasons and under different circumstances. But on both occasions she hitchhiked.
14
tomrobbins

5.
sissy’s earliest memory was of a day when she was four or three. It was Sunday afternoon and she had been napping under sheets of funnies on a horsehair sofa in the living room. Believing that she was still asleep, for they were not intentionally unkind, her daddy and a visiting uncle were standing over her, looking down at her young thumbs.
“Well,” her uncle said after a while, “you’re lucky that she don’t suck ’em.”
“She couldn’t suck ’em,” said Sissy’s daddy, exaggerating. “She’d need a mouth like a fish tank.”
The uncle agreed. “The poor little tyke might have a hard time finding herself a hubby. But as far as getting along in the world, it’s a real blessing that she’s a girl-child.
Lord, I reckon this youngun would never make a mechanic.”
“Nope, and not a brain surgeon, neither,” said Sissy’s daddy. “ ’Course she’d do pretty good as a butcher. She could retire in two years on the overcharges alone.”
Laughing, the men went out to the kitchen to fill their glasses. “One thing,” Sissy heard her uncle jest from a distance.
“That youngun would make one hell of a hitchhiker . . .”
Hitchhiker? The word startled Sissy. The word tinkled in her head with a supernatural echo, frozen in mystery, causing her to stir and rustle the funny papers so that she failed to hear the conclusion of her uncle’s sentence: “. . . if she was a boy, I mean.”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 15

6.
the surprise of Sissy Hankshaw is that she did not grow up a neurotic disaster. If you are a small girl in a low-income suburb of Richmond, Virginia, as Sissy was, and the other kids jeer at your hands, and your own brothers call you by your neighborhood nickname—
“Thumbelina”—and your own daddy sometimes makes jokes about your being “all thumbs,” then you toughen up or shatter. You do not merely stretch rhino leather over your own fair skin, for that would deflect pleasure as well as pain, and you do not permit your being to turn stinking inside a shell, but what you do is swirl yourself in the toughness of dreams.
It is all you care about. When the other kids are playing hopscotch or kick-the- can you go off alone to a woods near your home. There are no cars in the woods, of course, but that does not matter. There are cars in your dream.
You hitchhike. Timidly at first, barely flashing your fist, leaning almost imperceptibly in the direction of your imaginary destination. A squirrel runs along a tree limb.
You hitchhike the squirrel. A blue jay flies by. You flag it down. You are not the notorious Sissy then; just a shy Southern child at the edge of a small forest, observing the forward motion of your thumbs, studying the way they behave at different velocities and angles of arc. You hitchhike bees, snakes, clouds, dandelion puffs.
In school you learn that it is the thumb that separates human beings from the lower primates. The thumb is an evolutionary triumph. Because of his thumbs, man can use tools; because he can use tools he can extend his senses, control his environment and increase in sophisti-16
tomrobbins
cation and power. The thumb is the cornerstone of civilization! You are an ignorant schoolgirl. You think civilization is a good thing.
Because of his thumbs, man can use tools etc., etc. But you cannot use tools. Not

well. Your thumbs are too immense. Thumbs separate humans from the other primates.
Your thumbs separate you from other humans. You begin to sense a presence about your thumbs. You wonder if there is not magic there.
The first time . . . You’ll never forget it. It’s a frigid morning and a thin snow is filling the chinks in the wind.
You don’t feel like walking the five blocks to school. Over your shoulder you see—Oh you can barely speak of it now!—a Pontiac stationwagon approaching at a moderate speed. How you suffer through those false starts before your hand takes the plunge. Your bladder threatens to overflow. The sweep of your skinny arm seems to last for minutes. And even then you are passed by. But no—brake lights! The Pontiac skids ever so slightly on the snow-flakes. You run, actually sweating, to its side. Peer in.
Your face, beneath your stocking cap, is a St. Vitus tomato. But the driver motions for you to get in . . .
After that you never walk to school. Not even in fine weather. You catch rides to the movies on Saturday afternoons (your first exposure to cowgirls); catch rides into downtown Richmond just for practice. You are amazed at the inherent, almost instinctive, precision with which your thumbs move through air. You marvel at the grace of those floppy appendages. That there were ever such instruments as thumbscrews bring tears to your eyes. You invent rolls and flourishes. During your thirteenth summer you hitchhike nearly a hundred miles —to Virginia Beach to see the ocean.
For one reason or another, you look up “thumb” in a dictionary. It says “the short, thick first or most preaxial digit of the human hand, differing from the other fingers by having two phalanges and greater freedom of movement.”
You like that. Greater freedom of movement.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 17

7.
they continued to grow, the first or most preaxial digits of Sissy’s hands. They grew while she ate her grits and baloney; they grew while she slurped her Wheaties and milk. They grew while she studied history (“As the settlers pushed ever westward, they were threatened constantly by hordes of savage Indians”); they grew while she studied arithmetic (“If a hen and a half can lay an egg and a half in a day and a half how long will it take a monkey with a wooden leg to kick the seeds out of a dill pickle?”). They grew in the sour-smelling room where she slept with two brothers; they grew in the small forest where she played all alone. They grew in the summer when other things grew; they grew in the winter when most growing had stopped. They grew when she laughed; they grew when she cried. As she inhaled and exhaled, they grew.
(Yes, they grew even as millions of young Americans under social pressure and upon the instruction of their elders, struggled to cease growing; which is to say, struggled to “grow up,” an excruciatingly difficult goal since it runs contrary to the most central laws of nature—the laws of change and renewal—yet a goal miraculously attained by everyone in our culture except for a few misfits.) They continued to grow, the first or most preaxial digits of Sissy’s hands, and not quite in direct ratio with the rest of her growing-girl self.
If Sissy was fearful that they might grow on forever, that eventually they might reach a size that would put them beyond her control, that they might cause her to end up in a roadside zoo, third geek from the left, just across the pit from the Gila monster, she did not let on.
18
tomrobbins
With no mental effort, she was expanding her breasts from bottle-stoppers to mounds that required material re-straint. Without any help from her brain, she was beginning to sprout velvety hairs over that area between her legs that heretofore had been as bare and ugly as a baby bird. Lacking reason or logic to

guide her, she nevertheless maneuvered her bodily rhythms into perfect synchro- nization with those of the moon, at first merely spotting her panties and then, after only a few months’ practice, issuing a regular lunar flow. With the same calm and expert innocence, she pumped up her thumbs, ever lengthening the shadows they dropped on schoolwork and dinner plates.
As if intimidated by this rank and easy spectacle of growth—which, because they shared her room, they must witness in intimate detail—her brothers all but halted their own physiological progression. They remained their whole lives short and peanutlike, with baby faces and genitals of a size that women don’t really mind but that other men often feel compelled to mock. Believing that old wives’ tale about the correlation in scale of the thumb and the penis, locker-room anatomists sometimes suggested to the brothers that it was a pity they hadn’t shared in their sister’s digital largess.
Jerry and Junior Hankshaw would have been horrified had their thumbs assumed sisterly proportions; would have been horrified, for that matter, if their peckers had so enlarged. But a slight increase, a reasonable enlargement, would have been welcome, and indeed, after numerous clandestine consultations in the same scrubby forest where Sissy had learned her business, the brothers decided actively to seek it.
Junior, whose mechanical skills were to lead him in his daddy’s gritty footsteps (in the tobacco warehouses of South Richmond there is always a dryer, a humidifier or an exhaust fan that needs repair), began work on a secret apparatus. After no less than three used innertubes had been ripped and stripped in vain, and following the theft e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 19
of both rawhide laces from Mr. Hankshaw’s boots, Junior finally produced a gadget that resembled a mix between a vise, a slingshot and the center tube from a toilet tissue roll. For reasons of discretion, the thumb-stretcher could be used only late at night, and the brothers spent many a sleepy hour in the dark taking turns at the agony dispensed by the device they had fastened to their imitation maple Sears and Roebuck bedstead.
Their endeavor was not without historical precedent.
Around 1830, when he was twenty years old, the composer Robert Schumann subjected the fingers of his right hand to a stretching machine. Schumann’s

purpose was to escalate his progress toward piano virtuosity, his pianist- sweetheart Clara having expressed dismay over the length of his reach. In the sugar-frosted elegance of a nineteenth-century Leipzig drawing room, Schumann would sit stiffly, sipping kaffee, while his stubby fingers suffered growing pains in the grips of a contraption that resembled a nightingale harness, a rack for heretic elves. The result was that he crippled his hand, terminating his performing career.
All that happened to Jerry and Junior Hankshaw was that, with thumbs too red and raw to disguise, they soon were questioned by their parents and ridiculed by their peers. Thanking Jesus that he and Jerry had gone through digital intermediaries and not subjected their peckers directly to his invention, Junior threw the device into the James River. Poor Schumann threw himself into the Rhine.
Only one set of thumbs was destined to grow—and glow—in the rickety house of the Hankshaws. One set of thumbs destined to soar and bow, as if that set of thumbs was the prematurely shortened performing career of Robert Schumann, continuing now in a Rhine-soaked frock coat upon the cement stages of America’s freeways, O Fantasia, O Noveletten, O Humoreskes, Gas Food Lodging Exit 46.
20
tomrobbins

8.
south richmond was a neighborhood of mouse holes, lace curtains, Sears catalogs, measles epidemics, baloney sandwiches—and men who knew more about the carburetor than they knew about the clitoris.
The song “Love Is a Many Splendored Thing” was not composed in South Richmond.
There have been cans of dog food more splendiferous than South Richmond. Land mines more tender.
South Richmond was settled by a race of thin, bony-faced psychopaths. They would sell you anything they had, which was nothing, and kill you over anything they didn’t understand, which was everything.
They had come, mostly by Ford from North Carolina, to work in the tobacco warehouses and cigarette factories.
In South Richmond, the mouse holes, lace curtains and Sears catalogs, even the baloney sandwiches and measles epidemics, always wore a faint odor of cured tobacco. The word tobacco was acquired by our culture (with neither the knowledge nor consent of South Richmonders) from a tribe of Caribbean Indians, the same tribe that gave us the words hammock, canoe and barbecue. It was a peaceful tribe whose members spent their days lying in hammocks puffing tobacco or canoeing back and forth between barbecues, thus offering little resistance when the land developers arrived from Europe in the sixteenth century. The tribe was disposed of swiftly and without a trace, except for its hammocks, barbecues and canoes, and, of course, its tobacco, whose golden crumbs still perfume the summer clouds and winter ices of South Richmond.
In South Richmond, smelling as it did of tobacco, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 21
honky-tonk vice and rusted-out mufflers, social niceties sometimes failed to make the six o’clock news, but one thing the citizens of South Richmond agreed upon was that it was not fit, proper or safe for a little girl to go around

hitchhiking.
Sissy Hankshaw hitched short distances but she hitched persistently. Hitching proved good for her thumbs, good for her morale, good, theoretically, for her soul—although it was the mid-fifties, Ike was President, gray flannel was fashionable, canasta was popular and it might have seemed presumptuous then to speak of “soul.”
Parents, teachers, neighbors, the family minister, older children, the cop on the beat tried to reason with her. The tall, frail, solitary child listened politely to their pleas and warnings, but her mind had a logic of its own: if rubber tires were meant to roll and seats to carry passengers, then far be it from Sissy Hankshaw to divert those noble things from their true channel.
“There’s sick men who drive around in cars,” they told her. “Sooner or later you’re bound to be picked up by some man who wants to do nasty things to you.”
Truth was, Sissy was picked up by such men once or twice a week, and had been since she began hitching at age eight or nine. There are a lot more men like that than people think. Assuming that many of them would be unat-tracted to a girl with . . . with an affliction, there are a lot of men like that, indeed. And the further truth was, Sissy allowed it.
She had one rule: keep driving. As long as they maintained the forward progress of their vehicles, drivers could do anything they wished to her. Some complained that it was the old rolling doughnut trick, which even Houdini had failed to master, but they would take a flyer.
She caused a few accidents, taxed the very foundations of masculine ingenuity and preserved her virginity until her wedding night (when she was well past the age of twenty).
One motorist, a tanned athletic type, managed an occasional French lick while keeping his Triumph TR3 on a 22
tomrobbins
true course in moderate traffic. Normally, however, the limitations imposed by her steadfast devotion to vehicular motion were met with less dexterity.

Sissy neither solicited nor discouraged, but accepted the attentions of random drivers with calm satisfaction—and insisted they keep driving. She would eat the cheeseburgers and Dairy Queen sundaes they bought for her while they fished in her panties for whatever it is men fish for in that primitive space. Personally, she preferred gentle, rhythmic trollings. And automatic transmissions. (No girl likes to be molested by a party who is always having to shift gears.) Being molested was, in a sense, a fringe benefit of her craft, a secondary pleasure pulled like a trailer behind the supreme joy of the hitchhike. In honesty, though, she had to admit that it was also an avocational hazard.
Since the brain has such a high susceptibility to inflam-mation, there were occasional hotheads who would not or could not abide by her rule. In time she learned to recognize them by subtle symptoms—tight lips, shifty eyes, and a pallor that comes from sitting around in stuffy rooms reading Playboy magazine and the Bible—and refused their rides.
Earlier, however, Sissy dealt with would-be rapists in another way. When pressured, she placed her thumbs between her legs. Usually, the man simply gave up rather than try to remove them. The very sight of them there, guarding the citadel, was enough to cool passions or at least to confuse them long enough for her to leap out of the car.
Sissy dear. Your thumbs. hollywood spectacular.
las vegas. the rose bowl. Larger than any one man’s desires.
(Incidentally, Sissy’s mama never noticed any olfactory traces of her daughter’s adventures. Perhaps that is because in South Richmond even a young girl’s damp excitement quickly assumed the fragrance of tobacco.) e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 23

9.
she was taken to a specialist once. Once was all that her family could afford.
Dr. Dreyfus was a French Jew who had settled in Richmond following the unpleasantries of the forties. On his office door it was proclaimed that he was a plastic surgeon and a specialist in injuries of the hands. Sissy owned some toy automobiles made of plastic—she used them to set up theoretical problems in hitchhiking. Unlike some children, she took excellent care of her playthings. The notion of a plastic surgeon seemed silly to her. The suggestion of injury puzzled her further.
“Do they ever hurt?” asked Dr. Dreyfus.
“No,” replied Sissy. “They feel goo-ood.” How could she explain the tiny tingle of power she had begun to perceive in them?
“Then why do you flinch when I press?” inquired the specialist.
“Just because,” said Sissy. Again the schoolgirl could not elucidate the true emotion, but throughout her life she would refuse to shake hands for fear of damaging those digits that were to be to hitchhiking what Toscanini’s ba-ton was to a more traditional field of motion.
Dr. Dreyfus measured the thumbs. Circumference.
Length. He gave them eyeshine treatment although their skin was not lacking in shine. He tapped them with tiny hammers, registered (without hint of aesthetic preference) the various tints and shades of their coloration, milked them with syringes, pricked them with pins. He placed them one at a time upon the scales, cautiously, as if he were the Spanish treasurer and they musical hot dogs brought from America by Christopher Columbus to 24
tomrobbins
amuse the queen. In a hushed voice he announced that they comprised four percent of the girl’s total body weight—or about twice as much as the brain.

The x-rays had a go at them.
“Bone structure, apparent origin and insertion of musculature, and articulation are properly proportioned and normal in every aspect but size,” the doctor noted with a nod. The ghost-thumb in the negative nodded back.
Mr. and Mrs. Hankshaw were summoned from the waiting room where Saturday Evening Post fantasies had clouded their instinctive parental concern the way that Norman Rockwell’s sentimental ideas cloud the purity of a blank canvas.
“They are healthy,” Dr. Dreyfus said. “There is nothing I could do that would not cost you a year’s salary.”
The doctor was thanked for his consideration of Hankshaw finances. (“But a kike’s a kike,” Sissy’s daddy told the swing shift the next time he was sober enough to work. “Iffen he thought we had the money he’d a tried to squeeze us dry.”) Parents and child rose to leave. Dr.
Dreyfus remained seated. His heavy black fountain pen remained on the desk. His diploma from the Sorbonne remained on the wall. And so forth.
“When he was asked by the French government in nineteen thirty-nine how to design parachutists’ uniforms for maximum invisibility, the painter Pablo Picasso replied, ‘Dress them as harlequins.’ ”
The physician paused. “I don’t suppose that means very much to you.”
Mr. Hankshaw looked from the specialist to his wife to his high-top Red Wing work shoes (in which stolen laces had recently been replaced) to the specialist again. He laughed, half in embarrassment and half in irritation.
“Well, shee-ucks, Doc, it sure enough don’t.”
“Never mind,” said Dr. Dreyfus. Now he stood. “The girl has, of course, a congenital abnormality. I am sorry but I do not know the cause. Giantism in an extremity is usually the result of a cavernous hemangioma; that is, a e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 25
vein tumor that draws excessive amounts of blood into the extremity affected. The more nutrients an extremity gets, the larger it grows, naturally, just as if you

put chicken, how you say, manure around one rose bush, it will grow larger than the bush that has no manure. You understand? But the girl has no tumor. Besides, the odds of hemangioma in both thumbs is like billions to one. She is, if I may speak frankly, somewhat of a medical oddity.
Due to impaired dexterity, her life activities and career potentialities will be reduced. It could be worse. Bring her back to me if there ever is pain. Meanwhile, she will have to learn to live with them.”
“That she will,” agreed Mr. Hankshaw, who, since having been “saved” at the Moore’s Field Billy Graham Rally, had begun to look with bitter resignation upon the gnomish blimps moored to his only daughter’s hands.
“That she will. The Lord made them things big for a purpose. God don’t never git tired of testing our kind. It’s a punishment of some sort, for what I don’t rightly know, but it’s a punishment and the girl—and us—got to bear that punishment.”
—Whereupon Mrs. Hankshaw began to whimper, “Oh Doc, if you should git a boy in here, if a young man ever shows up here with, a young man with ugly fingers, you know, something similar, a similar case, Doc, would you please . . .”
—Whereupon the plastic surgeon remarked, “Remember the words of the painter Paul Gauguin, dear lady. ‘The ugly may be beautiful, the pretty never.’ I don’t suppose that means very much to you.”
—Whereupon Mr. Hankshaw pronounced, “It’s a judg-ment. She’s gotta bear the punishment.”
—Whereupon Sissy, like the Christ in the lurid picture that hung above the TV set at home, beamed serenely, as if to say, “Punishment is its own reward.”
26
tomrobbins

10.
oh yes. She was taken, also, to a specialist of a different discipline.
Commercial practice of the persuasion of palmistry was forbidden by ordinance in the city of Richmond, but in the surrounding counties of Chesterfield and Henrico it was entirely legal. Around the scuzzy edges of the town, where pine groves and truck gardens bumped against roadside honky-tonks and low-bid developments, there were to be found six or seven house trailers and three or four conventional homes within whose confines the testimony of the hands was daily given.
It was simple to recognize the lair of a palm-reader.
Outside her trailer or bungalow there would be a sign on which a silhouette of the human hand, wrist to fingertips, palm outward, was painted in red. Always in red. For some reason, and for all the author knows there may be a tradition here whose origins stretch back to the Gypsies of Chaldea, it would have been less surprising to find flesh-colored tights in General Patton’s laundry bag than to find a flesh-colored hand on a palmistry sign near Richmond. Every hand was red, and directly below the red wrist joint, where on an actual hand a watch or bracelet might cling, the sign-painter would have rendered the title “Madame” followed by a name: Madame Yvonne, Madame Christina, Madame Divine and others.
Madame Zoe, for example. “Madame Zoe” was the name under the red palm that was passed almost weekly by Sissy’s mama when she rode the bus out to the end of Hull Street Road to visit her friend Mabel Coffee, the plumber’s wife. Mrs. Hankshaw must have passed that sign two hundred times. She always looked at that sign as e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 27
if it were a deer in a meadow, it was that real to her and that elusive. But it was not until Mabel Coffee had a cyst removed from her ovary and nearly croaked— the same week of the same autumn that President Eisenhower’s heart went kablooey—that Mrs. Hankshaw (moved, perhaps, by the drama of events) impulsively pulled the buzzer cord and got off the bus at Madame Zoe’s. An appointment was made for the following Saturday.

When Mr. Hankshaw was informed of the date with the palmist he snorted and cussed and warned his wife that if she wasted five dollars of his hard-earned money on a goddamned fortuneteller she’d find herself moving in with Mabel, her plumber and her one good ovary. During the week, however, Sissy’s mama used the vaginal wrench to slowly, gently turn her husband’s objections down to a mere trickle. Mabel’s plumber, with his full set of tools, could not have done better.
On Palm Saturday, Sissy was made to dress as if for church. She was coaxed into a plaid wool skirt whose every pleat was as fuzzed as the romantic dreams of its former owners; she was helped into a cousin’s hand-me-down long-sleeved sweater (once white as dentures, now smoking three packs a day); she had her fair, naturally wavy hair combed out with tap water and a dab of White Shoulders cologne; her mouth (so full and round in comparison to the rest of her angular features that it seemed a plum on a vine of beans) was smeared lightly with ruby lipstick. Then mother and daughter took the Midlothian bus to Madame Zoe’s, Sissy pouting the full distance because she wasn’t allowed to hitchhike.
By the time they wobbled their worn heels on the palmist’s walk, however, the girl’s petulance had given way to curiosity. What an inspiring drill sergeant curiosity can be! They marched straight to the door of the house trailer and gave it a self-conscious thunk. Moments later it opened to them, releasing odors of incense and boiled cauliflower.
From the vortex of competing smells (This was outside 28 tomrobbins
the tobacco zone), Madame Zoe, in kimono and wig, asked them in. “I am the enlightened Madame Zoe,” she began, stubbing a cigarette in one of those enlightened little ceramic ashtrays that are shaped like bedpans and in-scribed butts. The trailer was cluttered, but not one knickknack, chintz curtain or chenille-covered armchair seemed to have come from the Beyond. The floor lamp was powered by electricity, not prana; the telephone directory was for Richmond, not Atlantis. Even more disappointing to the girl was the absence of any physical reference to Persia, Tibet or Egypt, those centers of arcane knowledge that Sissy was certain she would hitch to someday, although it should be made clear, here and now, that Sissy never really dreamed of hitching to

anywhere; it was the act of hitching that formed the substance of her vision. It turned out that there was nothing the least bit exotic in that house trailer except for the smoldering incense, and although in the dead air of the Eisenhower Years in Richmond, Virginia, incense seemed exotic enough, that particular stick of jasmine was in the process of being kicked deaf, blind and dumb by a pot of cauliflower.
“I am the enlightened Madame Zoe,” she began, her voice an uninterested monotonous drone. “There is nothing about your past, present or future that your hands do not know, and there is nothing about your hands that Madame Zoe does not know. There is no hocus-pocus involved. I am a scientist, not a magician. The hand is the most wonderful instrument ever created, but it cannot act of its own accord; it is the servant of the brain. (Author’s note: Well, that’s the brain’s story, anyhow.) It reflects the kind of brain behind it by the manner and intelligence with which it performs its duties. The hand is the external reservoir of our most acute sensations. Sensations, when repeated frequently, have the capacity to mold and mark.
I, Madame Zoe, chiromancer, lifelong student of the moldings and markings of the human hand; I, Madame Zoe, to whom no facet of your character or destiny is not e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 29
readily revealed, I am prepared to . . .” Then she noticed the thumbs.
“Jesus fucking Christ!” she gasped (and this in an era when the expressive verb/noun fuck did not, like a barnyard orchid, like a meat bubble, like a saline lollipop, did not bloom, as it does today, upon the lips of every maiden in the land).
Mrs. Hankshaw was as shocked by the fortuneteller’s epithet as the fortuneteller was startled by the girl’s digits.
The two women turned pale and uncertain, while Sissy recognized with a faint smile that she was in command.
She extended her thumbs to the good madame. She extended them as an ailing aborigine might extend his swollen parts to a medical missionary; madame showed no sign of charity. She extended them as a gentleman spider might extend a gift fly to a black widow of fatal charm; madame exhibited no appetite. She extended them as a brash young hero might extend a crucifix to a vampire;

madame recoiled rather nicely. At last, Sissy’s mama drew a neatly folded five- dollar bill from her change purse and extended it alongside her smiling daughter’s extremities. The palmist returned immediately to her senses.
She took Sissy by the elbow and led her to sit at a Formica-topped table of undistinguished design.
Apprehensively, Madame Zoe held Sissy’s hands while with closed eyes she appeared to go into trance. Actually, she was trying desperately to remember all that her teachers and books had taught her about thumbs. At one time, as a young woman in Brooklyn, she had been a serious student of chiromancy, but over the years, like those liter-ary critics who are forced to read so many books that they begin to read hurriedly, superficially and with buried resentment, she had become disengaged. And like those same dulled book reviewers, she was most resentful of a subject that did not take her values seriously, that was slow to reveal itself or that failed to reveal itself in a predictable manner. Fortunately for her impatience, the hands submitted to her by the rubes of Richmond read 30
tomrobbins
easily: their owners were satisfied with the most perfunctory disclosures, and that is what they got. Now here was a skinny fifteen-year-old girl wagging in her face a pair of thumbs that would not accept “You have a strong will” as an analysis.
“You have a strong will,” muttered Madame Zoe. Then she fell back into “trance.”
She grasped the outsized members, first timidly, then tightly, as if they were the handlebars of a flesh motorcycle that she could drive backward down memory lane. She held them up in the light to scrutinize their plump muscles. She placed the right one of them against her heart to register its vibrations. It was then that Sissy, who had never before touched a woman’s breast—and Madame Zoe’s forty-year-old mammaries were well formed and firm—lost control of the situation. She grew warm and scarlet and retreated into adolescent awkwardness, permitting the enlightened Madame Zoe, who could sense a latent tendency as readily as she could spot a broken life line, to regain some of the gelid composure from behind which she was accustomed to listening condescendingly to those pathetic proletarian palms whose little stories were always aching to be

told.
Still, Madame Zoe was awed by the blind babes in her grip, and Sissy, despite a fluster that was doubled by the fact that she feared her mama might notice it, was to leave the house trailer in a sort of triumph.
The palmist began hesitantly. “As d’Arpentigny wrote,
‘The higher animal is revealed in the hand but the man is in the thumb.’ The thumb cannot be called a finger because it is infinitely more. It is the fulcrum around which all the fingers must revolve, and in proportion to its strength or weakness it will hold up or let down the strength of its owner’s character.”
The snake soup of memory was cooking at last. It could almost be smelled above the cauliflower and the incense.
“Will power and determination are indicated by the first phalanx,” she continued. “The second phalanx indi-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 31
cates reason and logic. You obviously have both in large supply. What’s your name, dearie?”
“Sissy.”
“Hmmm. Well, Sissy, when a child is born it has no will; it’s entirely under the control of others. For the first few weeks of its life it sleeps ninety percent of the day.
During this period the thumb is closed in the hand, the fingers concealing it. In other words, the will, represented by the thumb, is dormant—it has not begun to assert itself. As the baby matures, it begins to sleep less, to have some ideas of its own and even to show a temper. When that happens, Sissy, the thumb comes from its hiding place in the palm, the fingers no longer closed over it, for will is beginning to exert itself, and when it does, the thumb—its indicator—appears. Idiots, however, or paranoiacs either never grow out of this thumb-folding stage or revert to it under stress. Epileptics cover their thumbs during fits.
Whenever you see a person who habitually folds his thumb under his fingers, you’ll recognize that they’re very disturbed or sick; disease or weakness has displaced the will. As for you, Sissy, you’re healthy, to say the least.

Why, I bet even as a baby . . .”
An electric toaster, which shared the table top with the forearms and hands of the palmist and her subject, and whose shiny chrome was dusted with the crumbs from the morning’s slices much as cathedrals are dusted with the crumbs from eternity’s pigeons, an electric toaster, manufactured in Indiana (for in those days Japan was still flat on her tatami), an electric toaster, whose function it was to do to bread what social institutions are designed to do to the human spirit, an electric toaster reflected—like a cynical impersonation of the crystal ball Sissy thought would be there and wasn’t—the tremors that ran through this little scene.
“Now, as to the shape of your thumb, it is, I’m not pleased to say, rather primitive. It’s broad in both phalanges, attesting to great determination, which can be good; and the skin is smooth, attesting to a certain grace.
32
tomrobbins
Because, furthermore, its tip is conic and the nail glossy and pink, I’d say that you have an intelligent, kindly, somewhat artistic nature. However, Sissy, however, there is a heavy quality to the second phalanx—the phalanx of logic— that indicates a capacity for foolish or clownish behavior, a refusal to accept responsibility or to take things seriously and a bent to be disrespectful of those who do. Your mama tells me that you’re pretty well behaved and shy, but I’d watch out for signs of irrationality.
All right?”
“What are the signs of irrationality,” asked Sissy, rationally enough.
For reasons known only to her, Madame Zoe chose not to elaborate. She pulled the young girl’s thumb to her breast once more, breathing with relief as Sissy sweated and swallowed, unable to pursue her questioning. The palmist’s house trailer was neither wide nor tall, but oh it was rich in odors that day.
“Your thumbs are surprisingly supple, flexible . . .”

“I exercise ’em a lot.”
“Yes, well, um. The flexible thumb personifies extravagance and extremism. Such people are never plodders but achieve their goals by brilliant dashes. They are indifferent to money and are always willing to take risks. You, however, have a pretty full Mount of Saturn and, here, let me see your head line; hmmm, yes, it’s not too bad. A long sharp head line and a developed Mount of Saturn—
that’s the little pad of flesh at the base of the middle finger—
will often act as a sobering influence on a flexible thumb.
In your case, though, I’m just not sure.
“I guess the most important aspect of your thumbs is the, ahem, overall size. Uh, what was it, do you know, that caused . . . ?”
“Don’t know; doctors don’t know,” called Mrs. Hankshaw from the couch, where she’d been listening.
“Just lucky, I guess,” smiled the girl.
“Sissy, dang you, that’s what Madam Zoe means when she tells you about ‘irrational.’ ”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 33
Madame Zoe was anxious to get on with it. “Large thumbs denote strength of character and belong to persons who act with great determination and self- reliance.
They are natural leaders. Do you study science and history in school? Galileo, Descartes, Newton, Leibnitz had very large thumbs; Voltaire’s were enormous, but, heh heh, just pickles compared with yours.”
“What about Crazy Horse?”
“Crazy Horse? You mean the Indian? Nobody that I’ve ever heard of ever

troubled to study the paws of savages.
“Now, I must tell you this. You have the qualities to become a really powerful force in society—God, if you were only a male!—but you may have such an overabun-dance of those qualities that they . . . well, frankly, it could be frightening. Especially with your primitive phalanx of logic. You could grow up to be a living disaster, a human malfunction of historic proportions.”
What had she said? With some effort—for they seemed to hold her even as she held them—Madame Zoe let go of Sissy’s thumbs. She wiped her palms on her kimono: they were red like the sign. It had been years since she’d given such a deep reading. She was more than a little shaken.
The toaster, for toasterly reasons, sat with endlessly bowed back, its flank mirroring her wig, which now hung slightly askew.
“So accurate a revealer of personality is the thumb”—
she was addressing Mrs. Hankshaw now—“that the Hindu chiromancers base their entire work on it, and the Chinese have a minute and intricate system founded solely on the capillaries of the first phalanx. So, what I’ve given your daughter amounts to a complete reading. If you want me to consider the palms separately, it’ll cost you an extra three-fifty.”
Confusion had the better of Mrs. Hankshaw. She wasn’t sure whether too little had been revealed or too much. Her eyes looked like a fire in a Mexican nightclub.
She felt she should be outraged but she wanted more information.
34
tomrobbins
“How much for one question?”
“You mean one question answered from the palm?”

“Yes.”
“Well, if it’s simple, only a dollar.”
“Husband,” said Mrs. Hankshaw, withdrawing a bill from her ratskin bag. ( The blaze, which started in a pot of paper flowers, spread quickly to the dancers’ costumes.)
“Beg your pardon?”
“Husband. Will she find a husband?” ( The bandleader bravely led the orchestra in “El Rancho Grande,” even as his pet Chihuahua was being trampled in the panic.)
“Oh, I see.” Madame Zoe took Sissy’s hand and gave it the old tall-dark-stranger squint. But she was in too deeply now to be deceptive. “I see men in your life, honey,” she said truthfully. “I also see women, lots of women.” She raised her eyes to meet Sissy’s, looking for an admission of the “tendency,” but there was no signal.
“There is most clearly a marriage. A husband, no doubt about it, though he is years away.” And feeling expansive, she added at no extra charge, “There are children, too.
Five, maybe six. But the husband is not the father. They will inherit your characteristics.” Since it is impossible to tell these last two things from the configurations of the hands, Madame Zoe must have been operating on psychic powers long dormant. She might have said more, but Mrs.
Hankshaw had heard plenty.
Mother ushered daughter from the trailer as if she were leading her from the burning El Lizard Club. ( At the height of the inferno, a battery of overheated tequila bottles began to explode in the flames.) The elder Hankshaw female had difficulty speaking.
“I’m gonna take the bus on out to Mabel’s, sweetie,” she said, giving Sissy a rare embrace. “You can catch a ride home iffen you want, but you promise me, word of honor, you won’t git in a car with no man alone.” Then she thought to add, “And no lady alone, either. Just a married couple. You promise? And don’t you

worry none e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 35
about the stupid stuff that woman said. We’ll talk it over when I git home.”
Sissy wasn’t worried at all. Confused, maybe, but not worried. She felt somehow — important—in an obscure, off-center fashion. Although she knew nothing of such things then, she felt important in the sense that the clockworks is important. The clockworks is a long way, in every way, from the White House, Fort Knox and the Vatican, but the winds that blow across the clockworks always wear a crazy grin.
Inside the house trailer, behind the red palm, where once again only jasmine incense and boiled cauliflower battled for olfactory supremacy, Madame Zoe crouched at a window, watching her young subject hitch a ride.
(The conic tip led the way, cutting through the atmosphere like the bowsprit of a ship, pulling after it the slightly bent phalanx of logic, followed by a fairly gliding phalanx of will and, quivering and rolling at the end of the procession, the ever-voluptuous Mount of Venus.) Suddenly, Madame Zoe recalled a sarcastic saying, a bon mot, that she had not heard in years. It made her laugh pointedly and with little humor; she bit her lipstick and shook her wig. The saying concerned the first or most preaxial digit of the human hand, although it had nothing to do with palmistry. It went like this:
“If you only had a thumb you could rule the world.”
COWGIRLINTERLUDE
( B O N A N Z A J E L L Y B E A N ) She is lying on the family sofa in flannel pajamas. There is Kansas City mud on the tips and heels of her boots, boots that have yet to savor real manure. Fourteen, she knows she ought to remove her boots, yet she refuses. A Maverick rerun is on TV; she is eating beef jerky, occasionally slurping. On her upper stomach, where her pa-36
tomrobbins
jama top has ridden up, is a small deep scar. She tells everyone, including her school nurse, that it was made by a silver bullet.
Whatever the origin of the extra hole in her belly, there are unmistakable signs

of gunfire in the woodwork by the closet door. It was there that she once shot up one half of an old pair of sneakers. “Self-defense,” she pleaded, when her parents complained. “It was a outlaw tennis shoe.
Billy the Ked.”

11.
so sissy lived in richmond, Virginia, in the Eisenhower Years, so called as if the passing seasons, with their eggs hatching and rivers rising, their cakes baking and stars turning, their legs dancing and hearts melting, their lamas levitating and poets doing likewise, their cheerleaders getting laid at drive-in picture shows and old men dying in rooms over furniture stores, as if they, the passing seasons, could be branded by a mere President; as if time itself could toddle out of Kansas and West Point, popular-ize a military jacket and seek election to Eternity on the Republican ticket.
In the croaked air of the Eisenhower Years in Richmond, Virginia, she must have been a familiar sight. In clothes that were either too big for her or too small —
floppy coats whose hems rubbed the cement, summer slacks that disclosed everything anyone might wish to know about her socks—she moved through the city (the city of which it has been said, “It is not a city at all but the world’s largest Confederate museum”).
At all hours and in every weather the girl could be seen, if not admired.
Her soon-to-be-lovely features were still getting their e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t
h e b l u e s 37
sea legs and at that unsteady stage of their development must have clung clumsily to the bleached deck of her face (which, due to unusually high cheekbones, appeared as if it were pitched aslant in rough waters).
Her long, svelte body, as eloquently as it might assert itself, could not have been heard above the funky din of the clothing she wore.
Certainly her mind didn’t count for much: in the sotweed suburb of South Richmond, no mind did. Few were the schoolmates to notice the headlight shine of her eyes and wonder who was driving around inside there.
When they said, “Here comes” (or “there goes) Sissy Hankshaw,” they meant “not a thumb more, not a thumb less.”

For wherever she went those wads of meat went with her; those bananas, those sausages, those nightsticks, those pinkish pods, those turds of flesh. She smuggled them around town in her baggy duds, launching them on appropriate corners and regarding them always as if they were manifestations of some secret she alone understood—
although in the bank-vault air of the Eisenhower Years in Richmond, Virginia, they must have stood out like sore . . .
(It is surprising that she was so faintly remembered in Richmond in later years. When the author asked the late Dr. Dreyfus about that, the surgeon replied: “According to the artist Michelangelo, ‘The human figure is the ideal ornament for the niche.’ I don’t suppose that means very much to you.”)
If, like the cat that looked at the world through mouse-colored glasses, she was rather insular, let it not be supposed that she was immune from indulging those heightened hormone flows and colored thoughts that, of all the trillions of visceral/cerebral reactions triggered by the limbic system of our trigger-happy brains, we single out to honor as “true human feelings.”
One day, one spring Thursday near the end of a semes-ter, more than three years after she had been examined by 38
tomrobbins
Dr. Dreyfus and a few months after Madame Zoe’s special knowledge had come her way, she was invited to a party.
It was to be a costume party, given by Betty Clanton, a druggist’s daughter and one of the more privileged kids in that roach-gnawed, white-trash school.
All day Thursday Sissy thought she would not attend Betty’s party. All day Friday and Friday night (when she lay awake on three, yes, three pillows) she thought she would not attend Betty’s party. But late Saturday afternoon, with an overtime sun nosing into everything and green froggies peeping and honeysuckle affixing a sweet faint hem to the golden pungency that hung like a curtain over the tobacco warehouses and a typewriter of birds banging out sonnets in the dogwood buds ( And wilt thou have me fashion into speech Ding! Line space. Carriage return. The love I bear thee, finding words enough Ding!

The birds hacking it out) and spring in general coming on like a geometric progression, she began to get ideas. For the first time in her life, perhaps (although Sunday school had occasionally moved her and although Madame Zoe’s bosom and the by-now-customary mobile molestings had certainly stirred her), she felt directed by forces other than her thumbs. She heard music that was not road music; her head swayed to rhythms that were softer and lighter than the rhythms of the hitch. Something in the springtime had telephoned something in her limbic system and reversed the charges. Something had touched Sissy Hankshaw and it doesn’t matter what.
Sissy went out back and gathered feathers where her mama had recently deplumed a hen. Using electrical tape, she fashioned them—slowly and sloppily —into a kind of headdress. With Jerry’s old watercolor kit, she painted herself as best she could, not neglecting at the last moment to paint her hands.
She went to Betty’s costume party. She went as Chief Crazy Horse. She drank two bottles of Coke, munched a package of Nabs, listened to the new Fats Domino records, smiled at some jokes and left early. Only two thin e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 39
rivulets streaked her warpaint to reveal how she felt when Billy Seward, Betty’s boy friend and the most popular guy in school, bounded through the door, amid shrieks of laughter, wearing giant papier-mâché thumbs. Ach! Billy had come as Sissy Hankshaw.

12.
“when you grow up with somebody you just sort of accept them, even if they are odd,” said Betty Seward née Clanton. She checked the coffeepot. It was still perking.
Over and over the coffee turned in the pot. Its wheels sang in the interviewer’s nostrils. They were singing a song of the past.
“I mean, she wasn’t a freak, exactly, or a loony; she was a right smart girl and right polite and nice, but you know, she did have this peculiar development; but what I’m saying is, we got pretty used to it over the years, except that every now and then . . .
“I remember the night we graduated from junior high.
When your name was called you were supposed to get up and walk across the stage and take your diploma from the principal with your left hand and shake hands with him with your right hand. But Sissy wouldn’t shake hands.
Not even with the principal. It wasn’t that she couldn’t; she just wouldn’t. Mr. Perkins was pretty irritated. And a lot of the kids complained that Sissy was making a mockery of our graduation.
“There’s an old abandoned rock quarry in South Richmond, all filled up with water, you know, and we used to swim there when we got the chance. The day after graduation our class was gonna have a picnic there—unchaperoned, weren’t we devils? all on the sly—and some older kids who drove cars were gonna pick us up and take us.
40
tomrobbins
We were supposed to pick up Sissy, but just for spite we decided not to. We left her. Well, about noon somebody saw her out on the road catching a ride,

hitchhiking like she did, big as life, not scared or ashamed but getting into any car that would stop for her, but she never showed up at the picnic. All day long she hitched up and down the road that runs near the quarry, up and down, back and forth, passing again and again. But she didn’t ever stop; she just kept passing it by.
“And, you know, most of us at the picnic got sun-burned, and a third of us got poison oak, and a bunch of us got drunk and sick off beer the older kids bought us and we caught the dickens from our parents, and one boy got bit by a watersnake and somebody sat on broken glass. And I thought to myself, hmmm, that Sissy’s the only one that came out of that day okay; nothing happened to her ’cause she just kept moving. You know what I mean?”
Mrs. Seward left her chair to unplug the coffeepot.
“Right off, I don’t remember how old she was when she found out she was part Indian. Her mama’s family, a lot of them, had lived out West, in the Dakotas, and one of them had married a squaw, I don’t recollect the tribe . . .
“Siwash? That’s right. That sounds like it. So one time Sissy’s aunt—her mama’s sister—came here for a visit from Fargo, and there was a lot of fuss about integration here then; everybody was all upset about the Supreme Court telling us we’d have to go to school with the colored, and I guess the Hankshaws were discussing it like everybody else when the aunt let the cat out of the bag about Indian blood in the family. Well!! Sissy’s daddy got furious. I don’t know why; a Indian’s not the same as a ni-gra. But I guess he just about divorced his poor wife.
Sissy, though, was right pleased. She figured out she was one-sixteenth—what was it?—Siwash. She talked about it at school. We’d never seen her so excited. She showed a lot of interest in Indians after that, although not as much as she showed in hitching rides. Of course, she didn’t look e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 41
a bit Indian. She was as fair as an apricot. But for a while about then she started putting designs on her poor thumbs. Mercy! Her own brothers had to hold her down and wash them off.”
Having perked sufficiently, coffee made the short trip from pot to cup. It traveled direct. There were no other stops on its route. Betty Clanton Seward

produced a box of Saltines and a brown and yellow aerosol can.
“This stuff is the latest thing in the stores,” she said, brandishing the can. “You spray a regular old soda cracker with it . . .” zzzzt zzzzt “. . . and it makes it taste like a chocolate chip cookie. Here.”
The interviewer declined. He wished to ask clear and concise questions concerning a former classmate of Mrs.
Seward’s. He didn’t want his mouth full of soda crackers, even if they did taste like chocolate chip cookies. (What won’t those Japanese think of next?)
“There were times, I’ll admit, when I’d look at her sitting in school, sitting so straight and smiling so secretively and all, and I’d think that maybe there was something special about her, something other than her physical condition, I mean; something positive. She couldn’t take the secretarial program because she couldn’t use a typewriter; she had good ideas in art class but she wasn’t able to bring them off; heck, she only got a C in Home Ec ’cause she couldn’t sew, and everybody got A or B in Home Ec. Just the same, and even though her future looked hopeless, I had this feeling that she could teach us others something.
Only I never figured out what it was, exactly. And I guess I was as, ah, insensitive to her as the rest. One evening after dark when she thought nobody would see her, she brought a whole armload of yellow jonquils that she’d picked —kicked out by the roots, actually—alongside some road or other and left them on my front porch. She kinda liked me, I think.” Betty Clanton Seward tugged at a strand of her hair as a preoccupied milkmaid might tug at a teat in the dawn. “She was real quiet, but I heard her anyway. I was upstairs putting in curlers and I looked out 42
tomrobbins
the window and saw her. I could tell who it was because the moon was shining on her . . . her abnormality.
“Well, I couldn’t keep my big mouth shut. I told the kids at school about it and they teased her pretty hard.
“That wasn’t the worst time, though. The worst time was when I gave a costume party and I invited Sissy, partly because I felt sorry for her but also because she

was, I don’t know how to put it into words, she fascinated me, in a sense. At any rate, Bill—he’s my husband now, he’s a chemist at the Philip Morris plant, you oughta talk with him—Bill made himself a huge pair of thumbs outta paper and chicken wire and that was his costume. He didn’t really mean to be cruel, but you know how young folks are. Thoughtless.”
She sighed. She milked another half-pint from her hair. Then, as had the coffee before her, she perked.
“Goodness, it’s nearly two. I’ve gotta start getting my face on. Can you excuse me? Young Willie has to be at the doctor’s at three. He’s gotta have a wart burned off today.”
Whereupon the ten-year-old boy who had been loitering on the edges of the interview glomming crackers by the dozen presented his unshod foot—washed, thank God, in recent times—and sure enough, there was a wart atop it the size of a burr. The interviewer wondered why Mrs. Seward simply didn’t spray the wart until it tasted like a chocolate chip cookie and let Willie eat it off.
The interviewer didn’t tell Mrs. Seward that.
There was something else the interviewer didn’t tell Mrs. Seward.
He didn’t tell her that the next time persons adorned themselves with fraudulent thumbs in imitation of Sissy Hankshaw, it would be an act of homage.
Mrs. Seward would have thought it ridiculous, an homage of tree-bark thumbs waving impertinently in the face of the twentieth century like a forest of prehistoric diplomas that expect no handshake in return. As a matter of fact, it was a bit ridiculous. But because it was ridiculous, we know it must be true.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 43 COWGIRLINTERLUDE (VENUSIAN)

On Venus, the atmosphere is so thick that light rays bend as if made of foam rubber. The bending of light is so extraordinary that it causes the horizon to tilt upward.
Thus, if one were standing on Venus one could see the opposite side of the planet by looking directly overhead.
Perhaps it is best that we on Earth resist the temptation to thicken our atmosphere. Maybe we should give second considerations to those leaders who insist we learn to think of smog as our friend.
Imagine that you are a cowgirl, trotting your pony in the grassy hills of the Dakotas. Suddenly you hear a wild trumpeting cry. You rear back in the saddle and look aloft—expecting to see a flight of whooping cranes, dancing in midair to their own loud music. Instead, you gaze upon a bugler blowing reveille on the other side of the world. The Chinese army is bivouacked all over the sky.

13.
one june, Richmond, Virginia, woke up with its brakes on and kept them on all summer. That was okay; it was the Eisenhower Years and nobody was going anywhere.
Not even Sissy. That is to say, she wasn’t going far. Up and down Monument Avenue, perhaps; hitching up and down that broad boulevard so dotted with enshrined cannons and heroic statuary that it is known throughout the geography of the dead as a banana belt for snuffed generals.
The old Capital of the Confederacy marked time in the heat. Its boots kicked up a little tobacco dust, a little wis-teria pollen, and that was it. Each morning, including 44
tomrobbins
Sundays, the sun rose with a golf tee in its mouth. Its rays were reflected, separately but equally, by West End bird baths, South Side beer cans, ghetto razors. (In those days Richmond was convoluted like the folds of the brain, as if, like the brain, it was attempting to prevent itself from knowing itself.)
In the evenings, light from an ever-increasing number of television sets inflicted a misleading frostiness on the air. It has been said that true albinos produce light of a similar luminescence when they move their bowels.
Middays, the city felt like the inside of a napalmed wa-termelon.
Whenever possible, men, women, children and pets kept to the shade, talked little, stirred less, watched the blades of fans go ’round as is the nature of fan business.
Only Sissy Hankshaw voluntarily frequented those places where tar was sticky, where fried gravel sparkled, where weeds wilted, where asphalt crumbled (the Devil’s left-over birthday cake), where worn concrete translated into Braille long bitter arguments between the organic and inorganic levels of life. (If you have ever licked nickel or kissed steel, you know the arguments.) Some say excessive sunshine softens the brain (repulsively soft already) and maybe that’s what made

her do it.
Maybe it was the yellow gloves of hydrogen boxing her ears; maybe solar radiation caused her atoms to whirl a trifle coocoo. On the other hand, her action may have been merely an indication of the scope of her ambition, and while remarkable, should hardly be considered any more strange than little Mozart’s impulse, at age nine, to compose a symphony.
In any case, and whichever the ever, upon a sweaty but otherwise nondescript afternoon in early August 1960, an afternoon squeezed out of Mickey’s mousy snout, an afternoon carved from mashed potatoes and lye, an afternoon scraped out of the dog dish of meteorology, an afternoon that could lull a monster to sleep, an afternoon e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 45
that normally might have produced nothing more significant than diaper rash, Sissy Hankshaw stepped from a busted-jaw curbstone on Hull Street in South Richmond and attempted to hitchhike an ambulance. As a matter of fact, she tried to flag it down twice—coming and going.
Squalling, its red lamps flashing as if in frenetic, amateurish imitation of that summer’s quietly professional sun, the ambulance was on an errand of mercy. Naturally, it did not stop. Had she expected it to? Would she have boarded it, joined its bleeding or gasping cargo if it had?
Had she successfully hitchhiked an ambulance, would she next have tried a hearse?
Conjecture. The meat wagon rolled on, and Sissy, unlike young Mozart, was rewarded by not so much as a lump of sugar for her experiment. However, the ambulance crew had not failed to notice her hailings. Before Sissy had gotten many blocks away, she was, for the first time in her career, arrested.
Her appearance at the station house created a minor stir. On the one hand, the girl seemed pathetic; on the other, she was Buddha belly serene, and to the cop mentality, serenity smacks of disrespect. She was underage, her crime difficult to classify, the procedure uncertain. A police reporter from the News Leader became the first journalist to be intrigued by her; he telephoned his city editor to send over a photographer. File clerks were sneaking around corners to get a glimpse of her; other prisoners were making remarks. Finally, the desk sergeant lectured her against interfering with emergency vehicles and had a policewoman

hustle her home.
The photographer arrived too late to get a picture and the reporter was peeved, but for the others involved, a hasty release was ideal: the police got her out of their crew cuts; Sissy got back to work. Early that humid evening, as a roaring warehouse blaze sent the makings of a billion Pall Malls up in premature smoke, she was arrested again—for trying to flag down a fire engine.
46
tomrobbins
This time she was booked and held for twenty-four hours at the juvenile detention center, although the authorities once more found it expedient to set her free. Not the least of the reasons for her release was the frustration she caused the fingerprinter.

14.
richmond, virginia, has been called a “depression-proof” city. That is because its economy has one leg in life insurance and the other in tobacco.
During times of economic bellyache, tobacco sales climb even as other sales tumble. Perhaps the uncertainty of finances makes people nervous; the nervousness causes them to smoke more. Perhaps a cigarette gives an unemployed man something to do with his hands. Maybe a pipe in his mouth helps a man forget that he hasn’t lately chewed steak.
In times of depression, policy-holders somehow manage to keep up their life insurance premiums. Life insurance could be the only investment they can afford to maintain. Perhaps they insist on dignity in death since they never had it in life. Or is it that the demise of one of its insured members is the only chance a family has of getting flush?
Each autumn for many years Richmond has celebrated its depression-proof economy. The celebration is called the Tobacco Festival. (Somehow “Life Insurance Festival”
didn’t set any leather to tapping.)
Sissy Hankshaw liked to watch the Tobacco Festival parades. From a Broad Street curb, where she would secure an early position, it was her habit, once her courage climbed, to try to hitch the open convertibles in which the various Tobacco Princesses rode. The drivers, Jaycees one e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 47
and all, never noticed her; they kept their gaze straight ahead for the safety that was in it—tobacco gods would cough lightning should a Jaycee drive up the hindquarters of a Marlboro Filters float—but the waving Princesses, projecting eyebeam and toothlight into the multitudes, ever on the alert for kinfolk, boy friends, photographers and talent scouts, the Princesses sometimes would catch sight of a pleading pod, and for a crowd-puzzling second—
Oh the perils of innocence in the service of nicotine!—lose their carefully

coached composure. We may wonder what thumbtales—thumbfacts evolving into thumbmyths—those beauties carried home to Danville, Petersburg, South Hill or Winston-Salem when that year’s Tobacco Festival had burned down to a butt.
In 1960, the Tobacco Festival parade took place on the night of September 23. The Times-Dispatch reported that there were fewer floats than the previous year (“but they were fancier, and wider by six feet”); even so, it took ninety minutes for the procession to pass a given point.
There were twenty-seven Princesses, from whose company Lynne Marie Fuss— Miss Pennsylvania—was the next day named Queen of Tobaccoland. The parade grand marshal was Nick Adams, star of a TV series called “The Rebel.” Adams was a perfect choice since “The Rebel”
had a Civil War theme and was sponsored by a leading brand of cigarettes. The actor became piqued at one point in the parade when he discovered, rather abruptly, that his horse’s flank was the target of a gang of boys armed with peashooters. There were marching bands, clowns, military formations, drum majorettes, dignitaries, animals,
“Indians,” a few temporary cowgirls, even, their reptile-shiny shirts loaded down with embroidery and udders; there were hawkers of souvenirs and the aforementioned gang of evil peashooters. City Manager Edwards estimated attendance at the “noisily lavish extravaganza” at close to two hundred thousand, by far the largest crowd in festival history. Sissy Hankshaw was not among the throng.
48
tomrobbins
Miles across town from the thousands (who, according to the newspaper, “yelled, giggled and clapped”); across the James in South Richmond, where, economic theories to the contrary, it was always depression time; in a dim, dinky house, frescoed with soot and some termites’ low relief; before a full-length mirror merciless in its reflection of thumbs—Sissy stood naked. (Never say “stark naked.”

“Naked” is a sweet word, but nobody in his right mind likes “stark.”)
Sissy was making a decision. It was a point in life that could not hold still for ninety minutes’ worth of bright-leaf boosterism to pass it by.
In the seven weeks since her arrest a lot had happened to the girl. First, an assistant commonwealth attorney, encouraged by the police-woman who had driven Sissy home, was pulling strings to have her shipped to reform school. The public defender was using those terms “in-corrigible,” “wayward,” “curfew breaker” and “beyond parental control,” that, when applied to a young girl, mean simply “She fucks.” As late as 1960, the large majority of juvenile females behind bars were there because they had acquired an early taste for sexual intercourse (early in the eyes of civilized society, that is, for by nature’s calendar the twelfth or thirteenth year is precisely correct).
That our Sissy remained free on that September evening when animated cigarettes pranced in glittery goosesteps down Broad Street was owing in part to the efforts of a social worker who had been assigned to her case. However, if Miss Leonard had helped keep Sissy out of refor-matory, insisting that the girl’s hitchhiking was a chaste idiosyncrasy that offered no threat to society, she herself had been an upsetting factor. A few weeks back she had nagged Sissy to go to a dance with her, a “special” dance where the girl would “feel comfortable.” At last the limbic telephone had jingled again— “Ready on your call to Romance. Please deposit sixty-five micrograms of estrogen for the first three minutes” —and Sissy found herself e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 49
throbbing into a formal gown that a cousin had worn to a distant prom and with which some moths had recently been dancing cheek to cheek. Repairs to the gown had caused Sissy and Miss Leonard to arrive late at the community hall where the soirée was in progress. When Sissy read the poster that said goodwill industries ball, she began to suspect that they should not have arrived at all. Once inside, she was sure of it. The dance floor glistened with drool as over it there limped, staggered, slid and dragged the crab toes and chicken heels of a score or more splayed, spindly and rickety organisms; while in the red glow of homemade Chinese lanterns cleft palates, harelips, slack jaws, tics, twitches, frothings, popped eyes, dripping nostrils and skull points bobbed at various tempos, inspired by a Guy Lombardo record and the kinetic examples of their partners in the dance. When Sissy froze in alarm, Miss Leonard lectured her.

“Listen, honey, I realize how it is with you people.” She smiled knowingly at the remarkable creatures who were either shuffling va-cantly or flying apart at every joint to the “sweetest music this side of heaven.” “I’m aware of how it is in here. The polios can’t stand the cerebral palsies, the cerebral palsies snub the birth defects and all three hate the retardeds. I’m aware of that, but you’ve got to overcome it; the handicapped have got to stick together.” She was gently pushing Sissy toward the stag line, where the chair-pilots were spinning their wheels, when the girl, for the first time in her life, heard her own voice rise above a wispy phospho-rescence. Sissy screamed. “I’M NOT HANDICAPPED, GODDAMN IT!!” The cry turned Guy Lombardo’s sugar to lumps. The dancers stopped, some taking longer to wind down than others. They stared at her. A few of them giggled and cackled. Then, one by one, they began to applaud her (some of them clapping with one hand, in flailing and unintentional illustration of Zen Buddhism’s most famous proverb). Growing uneasy, almost afraid, the chaperones called for quiet, and Miss Leonard, in an effort to cast a more reasonable light on the scene, began 50
tomrobbins
tearing the red paper away from bald bulbs, but the applause flopped to an unsteady end when Sissy ran from the hall. Sissy wore that strange applause like a corsage of swampflowers as she hitchhiked home in her first formal gown, waltzing the waltz of the cars.
Now she stood before the mirror. She couldn’t hear the bands blaring “Dixie” as the talking cigarette package kicked up its silver slippers over town on Broad Street, but she could still hear the noise of the Goodwill Industries Ball, though weeks had passed. Perhaps sound carries farther across time than across space. No matter.
There was a more pressing noise: the voice of her daddy in the adjoining room. Sissy’s daddy was speaking in his Carolina voice, his booze voice, the voice that sounded as if it had been strained through Daniel Boone’s underwear.
He was speaking about the Colonel, the elderly man in the yellow sport coat who for years had petitioned to manage Sissy’s show biz career. “We’ll begin with my carnival, of course,” the Colonel would purr, and then he would chart a path up the golden staircase that led all the way to Ed Sullivan. The Hankshaws were embarrassed by the Colonel’s overtures. They had discouraged his interest.

Recently, however, Mr. Hankshaw had had a change of mind. For two reasons: Sissy was starting to cause him trouble, and the Colonel had doubled his offer. Mr. Hankshaw was a working man, after all, and in his breast, as in the breast of working men everywhere, there beat the fatty heart of a profiteer (Could Marxist stethoscopes be so universally faulty? Do all socialist heart specialists have gum in their ears?). Sissy’s daddy and mama were arguing at that moment about the contract, already signed by the Colonel, that lay like a freshly ironed pillowcase atop the TV set.
Her brothers were not home to defend her. Junior was watching the parade with the girl he was soon to marry.
Jerry was in traction (no wonder the Hankshaws needed the Colonel’s money) at the Medical College of Virginia.
Refused enlistment into the paratroopers because of his e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 51
size, Jerry had stood up in a ferris wheel seat at the Atlantic Rural Exposition— he had to do something—and gravity, that old scene-stealer, had once more gotten into the act.
Other things were bothering Sissy. Things as minor as her inability to locate information pertaining to the Siwash Indians, about whom she wished to write a paper in school. Things as annoying as the fact that teen-aged boys in the neighborhood had begun to follow her whenever she set out to hitchhike, burning to halts beside her, trying to coax her, as much out of malice as lust, into their vulgar Fords.
Many things had changed in Sissy Hankshaw’s world, including her own physical image. Suddenly, in the seven-teenth year of a life that had begun with a doctor’s dou-bletake and a nurse’s gasp, she had become lovely. A perfect compromise finally had been worked out between her predominantly angular features—high cheekbones, classically fine nose, fragile chin, peaceful blue eyes —and her decidedly round mouth—a full, pouty mouth that the Countess was later to compare to a mink’s vagina at the height of the rut. Her figure had come to correspond to the average measurements of the high-fashion model: she stood five-nine in her socks, weighed 125 pounds and taped 33-24-34; one of those bony beauties of whom wags have said, “Falling downstairs, they sound like a

cup of dice.”
She had given herself completely to the hitchhike because heretofore she had nothing else nor any hope of else. Ah cha cha, but now there was a choice. Or the possibility of a choice. She was pretty. And a pretty girl can always make her way in a civilized society. Perhaps she should somehow find a job, work and work and save her money—even if it took years—so that she could return to Dr. Dreyfus for that complex operation; so that she could lead a normal human female life.
Every time she said it to herself, however (there before the mirror), every time she thought “Dr. Dreyfus” or 52
tomrobbins
“normal life,” her thumbs talked back to her in thumbtalk: tingles, throbs and itches. Until at last she knew. Accepted what she had always sensed. She had been correct when she had howled at the dance. They were not a handicap. Rather, they were an invitation, a privilege audaciously and impolitely granted, perfumed with danger and surprise, offering her greater freedom of movement, inviting her to live life at some “other” level.
If she dared.
Well, about the time the steam calliope was wheezing like emphysema through the lungs of Tobaccoland, Sissy decided to dare. And about the instant she decided to dare, she commenced to laugh. She was laughing with such abandon, such secret delight, she could scarcely wiggle into her panties, even though her daddy stalked in from the living room and took a long, granite look.
Her parents warned her not to go out, but their attentions were on the TV screen when she stood at the refrigerator and coaxed a package of Velveeta cheese into her coat pocket. Some olives jumped in also. An apple joined up. A half-loaf of Wonder Bread said, what the hell, it’d go along, what was there to lose. “Nothing,” said Sissy.
She made it out the back door during a shootout on
“Gunsmoke.” Silently, she thanked Marshal Dillon for the cover, but it didn’t occur to her then to lament for Miss Kitty, ever a saloonkeeper, never a cowgirl.

On a dead run, olives bouncing out of her jacket, she reached the corner where Hull Street was intersected by U.S. Route 1—in 1960 still the principal north- south in-terstate highway.
By the time she got her arm in the air, the light had changed and the first car, a boatish, blue Lincoln with Jersey plates, was already passing. For a second, it appeared as if she were late, as if the driver had missed her gesture.
But no, some aspect of it—a glint of neon on the nail, perhaps—snagged the hem of his vision. He glanced back in time to see the entire appendage, immense, scrubbed, lubricated, zeppelinlike, looking as fresh and newborn as e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 53
an egg, invoking a strange interplay between the joyful and the ominous, as it swam at eye-level past his opposite rear window.
He braked.
What else could he do?
“Going north?” asked Sissy for openers as the door swung toward her like a slab of candied sky. Were it any other direction she wouldn’t have cared.
“You bet your raggedy white ass I am,” said the driver, grinning sardonically. He was black-skinned and beret-topped, and it was difficult to ascertain which there were the more of, saxophones in his back seat or gold teeth in his mouth. Sissy hesitated. But what the hell? In imitation of the Wonder Bread, she said to herself, “This is it; what is there to lose?” She boarded.
Actually, there was a fine style about the driver, about the tingle of treasure when he grinned, about the billow of marijuana smoke in which he sat (how different from the celebrated smokes of Richmond!); about the gardenia in his lapel and the flask by his side, about the degree to which his cameoed fingers turned up the volume on the radio, about the speed at which he made that big Lincoln rocket out of the tobacco slums, forever and forever, bearing Sissy Hankshaw up to the heights.
And Sissy Hankshaw, knees knocking with thrill and fear, and not knowing what else to do, reached into her scrawny coat and offered the black man a slice of cheese.

COWGIRLINTERLUDE (CHUCKWAGON)
Fire is the reuniting of matter with oxygen. If one bears that in mind, every blaze may be seen as a reunion, an occasion of chemical joy. To smoke a cigar is to end a long separation; to burn down a police station is to hold homecoming for billions of happy molecules.
Beside a marshy lake in an obscure sector of the Dako-54 tomrobbins
tas, a campfire was smiling its head off. Around it, however, there arose from a group of cowgirls several flares of discontent. Some of the girls were complaining that their stew was tasteless and bland.
“This stew is bland,” said one girl.
“It’s like milk from a sick cow,” said another.
Debbie, on cook duty that day, was defensive. “But spices aren’t good for you,” she said. “Spices burn the tummy and inflame the senses,” she went on, using two metaphors improperly inspired by the fire.
The dissatisfied diners scoffed, and because little Debbie looked so near to tears, Bonanza Jellybean spoke in her behalf. “It’s a well-known fact,” said Jelly, “that the reason India is overpopulated is because curry powder is an aphrodisiac.”
Delores del Ruby flicked an ember out of the reunion with a sharp crack of her whip. “Bullshit,” said Delores.
“There isn’t but one aphrodisiac in the world. “And that’s strange stuff.”

15.
“hitchhiking is not a spor t. It is not an art. It certainly isn’t work, for it requires no particular ability nor does it produce anything of value. It’s an adventure, I suppose, but a shallow, ignoble adventure. Hitchhiking is parasitic, no more than a reckless panhandling, as far as I can see.”
Those were the words of Julian Gitche, spoken in exasperation to Sissy Hankshaw. Sissy did not bother to answer Julian’s charges, and the author, who is ambivalent about the whole matter of hitchhiking, certainly is not going to answer them for her.
From Whitman to Steinbeck to Kerouac, and beyond e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 55
to the restless broods of the seventies, the American road has represented choice, escape, opportunity, a way to somewhere else. However illusionary, the road was freedom, and the freest way to ride the road was hitchhiking.
By the seventies, so many young Americans were on the road that hitchhiking did take on, Julian to the contrary, characteristics of sport. In the letters column of pop culture magazines such as Rolling Stone, hitchhikers boasted of records set for speed and distance, and whole manuals were published to advise those new to the “game.”
Oddly enough, Sissy was almost indifferent to this cultural phenomenon. To approach her for practical advice on the subject of hitchhiking would have been virtually futile. For example, she could not have told you, as did Ben Lobo and Sara Links in their booklet Side of the Road: A Hitchhikers Guide to the United States, that Montana laws strictly forbid hitchhiking in the vicinity of mental institutions. And it is difficult to say how she might have reacted to this piece of advice in Hitchhikers Handbook by Tom Grimm: “Don’t use your thumb to hitchhike. Use a sign instead.”
And at this Grimm observation, “I doubt whether most girls could safely hitchhike long distances alone,” Sissy would have had to laugh.

Because by that day in the New York clinic when Dr.
Goldman administered to her the “talk serum,” many years after the black musician’s Lincoln had transported her away from home and family, Sissy could say:
“Please don’t think me immodest, but I’m really the best. When my hands are in shape and my timing is right, I’m the best there is, ever was or ever will be.
“When I was younger, before this layoff that has nearly finished me, I hitchhiked one hundred and twenty-seven hours without stopping, without food or sleep, crossed the continent twice in six days, cooled my thumbs in both oceans and caught rides after midnight on unlighted highways, such was my skill, persuasion, rhythm. I set records and immediately cracked them; went farther, faster than 56
tomrobbins
any hitchhiker before or since. As I developed, however, I grew more concerned with subtleties and nuances of style.
Time in terms of m.p.h. no longer interested me. I began to hitchhike in something akin to geological time: slow, ancient, vast. Daylight, I would sleep in ditches and under bushes, crawling out in the afternoon like the first fish crawling from the sea, stopping car after car and often as not refusing their lift, or riding only a mile and starting over again. I removed the freeway from its temporal context. Overpasses, clover-leafs, exit ramps took on the personality of Mayan ruins for me. Without destination, without cessation, my run was often silent and empty; there were no increments, no arbitrary graduations reducing time to functional units. I abstracted and purified.
Then I began to juxtapose slow, extended runs with short, furiously fast ones— until I could compose melodies, concerti, entire symphonies of hitch. When poor Jack Kerouac heard about this, he got drunk for a week. I added dimensions to hitchhiking that others could not even understand. In the Age of the Automobile —and nothing has shaped our culture like the motor car—there have been many great drivers but only one great passenger. I have hitched and hiked over every state and half the nations, through blizzards and under rainbows, in deserts and in cities, backward and sideways, upstairs, downstairs and in my lady’s chamber. There is no road that did not expect me. Fields of daisies bowed and gas pumps

gurgled when I passed by. Every moo cow dipped toward me her full udder. With me, something different and deep, in bright focus and pointing the way, arrived in the practice of hitchhiking. I am the spirit and the heart of hitchhiking, I am its cortex and its medulla, I am its foundation and its culmination, I am the jewel in its lotus. And when I am really moving, stopping car after car after car, moving so freely, so clearly, so delicately that even the sex maniacs and the cops can only blink and let me pass, then I embody the rhythms of the universe, I feel what it is like to be the universe, I am in a state of grace.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 57
“You may claim that I’ve an unfair advantage, but no more so than Nijinsky, whose reputation as history’s most incomparable dancer is untainted by the fact that his feet were abnormal, having the bone structure of bird feet.
Nature built Nijinsky to dance, me to direct traffic. And speaking of birds, they say birds are stupid, but I once taught a parakeet to hitchhike. Couldn’t speak a word, but he was a hitchhiking fool. I let him get rides for us all across the West, and then he indicated that he wanted to set out on his own. I let him go and the very first car he stopped was carrying two Siamese cats. Tsk tsk. Maybe birds are stupid at that.”

16.
the so-called talk serum is essentially racemic methedrine with a pinch of Sodium Pentothal. It is not to be confused with the controversial “truth serum,” which is wholly Sodium Pentothal. Indeed, according to Dr.
Goldman, the talk serum may cause a subject to exaggerate. Clearly, he believed Sissy Hankshaw guilty of overstatement while under the influence of the injection.
The author frankly doesn’t know. The author isn’t altogether certain that there is any such thing as exaggeration.
Our brains permit us to utilize such a wee fraction of their resources that, in a sense, everything we experience is a reduction.
We employ drugs, yogic techniques and poetics—and a thousand more clumsy methods—in an effort just to bring things back up to normal.
So much for that. And so much for Sissy Hankshaw’s testimony on hitchhiking, whether distorted or exact.
There is something else to get at here. Listen.
Suppose you awoke one morning with the uneasy feel-58 tomrobbins
ing that the world had, while you slept, somehow slipped a-tilt and rose to find that your dresser drawers were mysteriously open a fraction of an inch and that prescrip-tion bottles had tipped over in the medicine cabinet (although neither you nor anyone else in your household had ventured since bedtime to get an aspirin, a condom or a Tums) and that pictures on the wall, shades on the lamps and books in the case were askew. Outdoors, the taller buildings were posing à la Pisa, or, should you live in the country, streams were running slightly outside their grooves as fruits dropped like gargoyle ganglia from the uniformly leaning trees. What would be your reaction to such a phenomenon? Honestly, now, and seriously, too.

How would you feel? Would you be scared? Confused? Puzzled and anxious? Would you telephone the police?
Would you pray? Or would you numbly await an explanation, refusing to attempt to analyze the event or even to experience it with your full emotions until you had read the papers, tuned in the news, heard how experts from the universities were explaining the tilt, learned how the Pentagon planned to deal with it, were reassured by the President, who might insist, as Presidents will, that nothing really nothing had gone wrong? Or instead of fear, bewilderment and anxiety, or in addition to fear, bewilderment and anxiety, or instead of a hard impulse to dismiss the happening and get back to business-as-usual, or in addition to a hard impulse to dismiss the happening and get back to business-as- usual, do you imagine that a bright trace of delight, unnamable and indefensible, might tickle your spine; could you feel in an odd way elated—elated, perhaps, because, in a rational world where even disasters are familiar and damn near routine, something of almost fairytale flavor had occurred?
Another try. Suppose that upon a late evening with thirsty guests in your home your supply of beer runs dry.
You slip out and aim your car in the direction of the only store in the area open after midnight, a half-case of Bud-weiser your goal. Well, a couple of blocks from your e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 59
house, the store not yet in view, you are subjected suddenly to an intense sensation of being spied upon. You scan for patrol cars but spot none. And then you see it, in the sky (its altitude and size indeterminable due to lack of reference points), a whirling disc outlined by concentric circles of white and green light with a scattering of rapidly blinking purple lightpoints in its center. It hovers— you are positive it is interested in you—beyond and above the hood of your car, whirling all the while, occasionally darting to the left or right with incredible speed. Before you gain the presence of mind to decide whether to brake or accelerate, the outer rings of white and green are extinguished and the small purple lights arrange themselves in a recognizable pattern—a pattern of a duck’s foot—
against the starless sky. Seconds later, the whole craft disappears. You drive on to the store, of course, because there’s nothing else (for the moment) you can do.

A while later, stunned and excited, you arrive home with the beer (you forgot Rick’s cigarettes), where you are faced with the problem of what, if anything, to tell your friends.
Maybe they won’t believe you; they’ll insist you’re drunk or lying or worse. Maybe they’ll blab too much; word will get to the press; you’ll be hounded by skeptics and nuts. Should you call the radio station to ascertain if anyone else saw what you saw? Do you have a moral obliga-tion to notify the nearest military installation? The way you handle these questions, as well as how much thought you eventually devote to the meaning of the UFO’s visual message— why, you might wonder, a duck’s foot?—
would be determined by your basic personality, and with all tender respect, that is of small concern to the author.
The significant query here is this: would you not, sooner or later, no matter who or what you are, feel a rise in spirit, a kind of wild-card joy as a result of your encounter? And if this elevation, this joyousness, can be attributed in part to your contact with . . . Mystery . . .
cannot it equally be attributed to your abrupt realization that there are superior forces “out there,” forces that for 60
tomrobbins
all their potential menace, nevertheless might, should they elect to intervene, represent salvation for a planet that seems stubbornly determined to perish?
Take now the clockworks. Both the clockworks, the original and the Chink’s. The clockworks, being genuine and not much to look at, don’t generate the drama of an Earth-tilt or a flying saucer, nor do they seem to offer any immediate panacea for humanity’s fifty-seven varieties of heartburn. But suppose that you’re one of those persons who feels trapped, to some degree, trapped mat-rimonially, occupationally, educationally or geographi-cally, or trapped in something larger than all those; trapped in a system, or what you might describe as an “increasingly deadening technocracy” or a “theater of paranoia and desperation” or something like that. Now, if you are one of those persons (and the author doesn’t mean to imply that you are), wouldn’t the very knowledge that there are clockworks ticking away behind the wallpaper of civilization, unbeknownst to leaders, organizers and managers (the President

included), wouldn’t that knowledge, suggesting as it does the possibility of unimaginable alternatives, wouldn’t that knowledge be a bubble bath for your heart?
Or is the author trying to ease you into something here, trying to manipulate you a little bit when he ought to be just telling his story the way a good author should?
Maybe that’s the case. Let’s drop it for now.
But look here a minute. Over here. Here’s a girl. She’s a nice girl. And she’s a pretty girl. She looks a bit like the young Princess Grace, had the young Princess Grace been left out in the rain for a year.
What’s that you say? Her thumbs? Yes, aren’t they magnificent? The word for her thumbs has got to be rococo—
rocococototo tutti! by God.
Ladies. Gentlemen. Shhh. This is the way truth is. You’ve got to let those strange hands touch you.
PA RT
 
II
. . . the Eskimos had fifty-two names for snow because it was important to them; there ought to be as many for love
—Margaret Atwood

17.
newspapers keep photographs of famous persons in their files. When one of the famous dies, a staff artist (the same guy who draws the circles around fumbled footballs) borrows the dead celebrity’s photo folder and with an air brush obliterates the highlights in his eyes.
It is standard procedure on most American newspapers.
By thus visually distinguishing those with us from those gone, the press shows its respect for, or its fear of, death.
Whenever you see a picture of a deceased notable in the papers, chances are his eyes will be dull and flat—as if the sparkle of his living had been divided among his next of kin.
In the official Postal Service photograph of the President of the United States, the process seemed almost to have been reversed. Eyes that originally had been inert and shallow had been made with the retoucher’s brush to twinkle warmly and project volleys of paternalism and health.
Sissy Hankshaw was standing beneath that very portrait of the President, in the lobby of the LaConner, Washington, post office. She looked at the President’s portrait as if it were the benign fantasy of some Jehovah’s 64
tomrobbins
Witness cartoonist—while she waited at the counter for her mail.
LaConner, Washington, was one of a half-dozen places around the country where Sissy received letters. The other places were Taos, New Mexico, Pine Ridge, South Dakota, Cherokee, North Carolina, Pleasant Point, Maine, and one other town. What these post offices had in common was that they all were on or adjacent to Indian reservations.
The President in the picture on the LaConner, Washington, post office wall that morning was not Ike. Oh no, Ike had led the people during Sissy’s childhood and, except as to how they might best grip a golf club, had never thought of

thumbs at all. Sissy had fled Richmond just as the Eisenhower Years were dying. (Dying of boredom, we might say—although the Eisenhower Years and the fifties were perfectly suited for one another; they went together like Hi and Lois. It was when the Eisenhower Years returned, in 1968 and, worse, in 1972—times too psychically complex, technologically advanced and socially volatile to endure simple-mindedness on such a grand scale—that a civilization already green around the gills began to flip-flop in earnest.) More than ten years had passed since Sissy made her move; a decade during which she hitchhiked obsessively, constantly, solitarily, marvelously. Among people who pay attention to such things, she had become a legend.
Being a legend is not always financially gainful. There is no United Federation of Legends union to ensure that members be compensated for their legendary labors at a minimum wage of $5.60 an hour. Legends have no lobby in Washington, D.C. There isn’t even a Take a Legend to Lunch Week. Consequently, Sissy had to rely on something other than her legendary hitchhiking for eats (for Tampax and toothpaste and repairs to her shoes). That is why she occasionally worked for the Countess. And it was because the Countess had to have a means of contacting her that Sissy checked post office general delivery e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 65
whenever she was near LaConner, Taos, Pine Ridge, Cherokee, Pleasant Point or that other place. Certainly, nobody but the Countess ever wrote to her. Sissy had neither heard from nor contacted her family since she had hitched off into the sunset. (Actually, of course, it was night when Sissy made her getaway, but in remembering South Richmond it is easy to confuse the memory of old brick with the memory of sunsets, as it is easy to inadver-tently mingle in one’s recollections the odor of toasting tobacco with the odor of blood: another of the brain’s little practical jokes.)
Sissy wished quite hard for a message from the Countess that day, because there was less than a dollar in her pockets. Wishing made it so. As the President beamed upon her, the postmaster returned to the counter with a slinky mauve envelope, addressed in puce-colored ink and smelling (even as it snuggled against the postmaster’s hand) of the boudoir. “Thank you,” Sissy said, and she carried the missive out onto the sidewalk.
Hitchhiking into LaConner, Washington, had been like hitchhiking down a mossy old well. Dark, damp and very green. There were puddles in the street and

the smell of mushrooms everywhere. The sky was a crock of curdled cloud. Mallards swam within quacking distance of the village post office and, as if in welcome, ten thousand hitchhiking cattails pointed their fat thumbs in the air.
She could hear foundations decaying as she stood there, and every horizon she tried to focus upon was mysteriously blurred, as if licked by the tip of the tongue of the Totem. Snails advanced upon the woodpiles. Fir trees stood their ground.
Directly across the slough from the village was the Swinomish reservation. Indeed, several Indians walked past Sissy at the post office, distracting her, for the moment, from the Countess’s letter.
At last, however, she ripped it open and was surprised to read just this:
66
tomrobbins
Sissy, Precious Being,
How are you, my extraordinary one? I worry so.
Next time you are near Manhattan, do ring me up.
There is a man to whom I simply must introduce you. Thrill!! The Countess
Refolding the sheet of expensive notepaper, Sissy warmed it for a while between her palms, as if, like the dirty old man who sat on a Girl Scout cookie hoping to hatch a Brownie, it might metamorphose into a work order. When she read it again, alas, it was the same pointless message.
“You’d think the Countess would know me better than that,” she mused. “I haven’t had a paycheck in half a year and all the Countess can come up with is an introduction to a man. Criminey!”
Just then, on the slough, some Indians tore by in a long canoe (an antique

shovel-nose war canoe), chanting furiously in the Skagit language. They were Swinomish bucks, mostly high school ballplayers or young unemployed vet- erans, practicing for the annual Fourth of July longboat race against the Lummi, Muckleshoot and other Puget Sound tribes. Sissy flung the scented letter into a waste can.
On television once, she had seen a cheapo Western called Reprisal. Guy Madison played a half-breed who passed. In the end, however, he soured on the System and went back to the wild old ways. “I deny that part of me that is white!” he cried
Sometimes Sissy had considered following Guy Madison’s example. Ah, to wahoo in the fir-shadowed streets of LaConner and deny that part of her that was civilized and pale!
But that would be denying fifteen-sixteenths of her. What would it be like, living life as a one-sixteenth? (a) Like that part of the moth the candle burns last. (b) Like a “slow dance on the killing ground.”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 67
(c) Maybe not so bad at that: in the land of rotting grapes a raisin could be
queen.
(d) Like a pair of thumbs to which there is no brain, no heart, no cunt attached.

18.
that her pleasure in indianhood and her passion for car travel might be incongruous if not mutually exclusive never occurred to Sissy (as it was to occur to Julian and Dr. Goldman). After all, the first car that ever stopped for her had been named in honor of the great chief of the Ottawa: Pontiac.
Perhaps Sissy was one of those who believed that nature and industry could sleep between the same flowered sheets. Perhaps she entertained visions of a future wilderness where bison and Buicks would mingle in harmony and mutual respect, a neoprimitive prairie where both pinto and Pinto would run free.
Perhaps. The visions of a woman in motion are difficult to gauge.
Visionary beliefs were neither expressed nor implied as Sissy, provisioned with Three Musketeers bars, thrilled LaConner’s municipal cattails by the manner in which she hitched out of town. As previously suggested, Sissy made it a general practice never to plan an itinerary nor fix a destination—but could she help it if the only road out of LaConner, Washington, ran directly to New York City?
Just as Chief Pontiac’s beseeching question, “Why do you suffer the white man to dwell among you?” arrowed straight to the soul of his people, so the only road out of LaConner shot straight to Park Avenue and the Countess.
“I honestly don’t know how I got here so fast,” Sissy 68
tomrobbins
told the Countess. “When I walked into the LaConner Food Center to buy candy, some Indians at the beer cooler snickered at my hands. I freaked out and the next thing I knew I was approaching the Holland Tunnel. I woke up in the front seat of a convertible. The top was down and my first impression was that we’d been scalped.”

19.
the countess had a smile like the first scratch on a new car. It was immanently regrettable. It was a spoiler. It was a stinging little reminder of the inevitability of deteri-oration.
As if further vandalizing a marred surface, an ivory cigarette holder periodically pried apart the Countess’s prickly jowls. Ashes from French cigarettes sifted onto the white linen suit that he wore daily without respect to season; ashes sifted upon the month-old bloom in his lapel. His monocle was fly-specked, his ascot was steak-sauced, his dentures thought that they were castanets and the world was a fandango.
The Countess didn’t give a damn. He was rich, and not a penny less. You would be rich, too, if you had invented and manufactured the world’s most popular feminine hygiene products.
The Countess had built a fortune on those odors peculiar to the female anatomy. He was the General Motors of body cosmetics, the U.S. Steel of intimate fresheners. As any genius might, he obsessively directed every phase of his company’s activities, from research to marketing, including advertising campaigns. That was where Sissy came in. She was his favorite model.
He had discovered her years before in Times Square, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 69
where a crowd had gathered to watch her cross Forty-second Street against the lights. In a rare concession, he had wiped off his monocle. She had an ideal figure for modeling, she was blond and creamy, her demeanor was regal— except for her mouth: “She has the eyes of a poet-ess, the nose of an aristocrat, the chin of a noblewoman and the mouth of a suck artist in a Tijuana pony show,”
announced the Countess. “She’s perfect.”
“But my God in holy Heaven,” protested the vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank, with whom he had just lunched. “What about her hands?”

Bookkeepers should know better than to argue with genius. The Countess had a fine photographer in his employ.
Background was essential to the dreamy, romantic yet slightly suggestive tableaux with which he appealed to potential consumers of Dew spray mist and Yoni Yum spray powder, so he frequently sent his cameraman on location, as far away as Venice or the Taj Mahal. He spared no ex-pense to get the image he wanted, and he learned to wait patiently for Sissy to hitchhike to her assignments.
He never photographed her hands.
Now, in the days when Lucky Strike cigarettes sponsored
“Your Hit Parade” on television, the program featured a singer named Dorothy Collins. Miss Collins invariably appeared in blouses or dresses with high collars. Eventually, the high collars led to the rumor that Miss Collins was hiding something. She was said to have a scar or a goiter or one hell of a mole. Perhaps a vampire had given Dorothy Collins a permanent hickey. There were all sorts of stories. After several years, however, the vocalist abruptly appeared on “Your Hit Parade” (singing “Shrimp Boats Are A-Coming” or something like that) in a low-cut gown—and her throat was as normal as yours or mine.
Of course, someone in Dr. Dreyfus’s profession could have worked a little plastic magic. We’ll probably never know.
At any rate, what with Sissy Hankshaw posing for so 70
tomrobbins
many picturesque Yoni Yum and Dew ads, it didn’t take more than about a year for sharp eyes to ascertain that her hands were never in the picture. They would be behind her back, or cropped out, or some tropical foliage or gon-dola prow would be obscuring them. And rumors à la Dorothy Collins spread along Madison Avenue. The usual stories—she had warts or birthmarks or tattoos or six fingers where five would do—came and went; but one version, that when she had once accepted an engagement ring from another, a jealous lover had lopped off her hands with a fish knife, persisted. The Countess, of course, wouldn’t say. He kept Sissy’s identity a secret and paid his photographer extra to develop

lockjaw. It was the kind of game the Countess loved. Listening to the rumors about his mystery model, he would probe his nasty smile with his cigarette holder and his dentures would clack like a goose eating dominoes.
Years afterward, when he was no longer using Sissy exclusively, the Countess posed a female impersonator in a Dew ad. He was not above that sort of trick. But he truly was taken with Sissy Hankshaw. Among other things, he believed her responsible for the jumpsuit interest that seized Western womanhood in the late sixties, and he placed her in the avant-garde of fashion. Well, it is true; Sissy wore jumpsuits long before any editor at Vogue, but it is also true that she continued to wear them after they passed out of style. Zippered jumpsuits were, in fact, the only garb Sissy could wear—because she hadn’t the facility to button her clothes.
Sissy never complained about the censorship of her hands, although as a matter of pride she would have preferred them in plain view. To the Countess’s credit, he often expressed a desire to get Sissy’s thumbs into the photo, simply for their phallic counterpoint, but he feared the American public wasn’t ready for that.
Maybe he’d test a thumb shot in Japan, he said, for among the Japs his firm already had grossed millions with e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 71
an ad that paraphrased a haiku by the eighteenth-century poet Buson:
The short night is through:
on the hairy caterpillar
little beads of Dew.
COWGIRLINTERLUDE
(MOONOVERDAKOTA)
The moon looked like a clown’s head dipped in honey.
It bobbed ballishly in the sky, dripping a mixture of clown white and bee jelly onto the Dakota hills.
Coyote howls (or were they crane whoops?) zigzagged through the celestial

make-up like auditory wrinkles.
Moonlight fell on Bonanza Jellybean as she bent over the horse trough, still scrubbing out her panties. (A warm day in a bouncing saddle can really stain a girl’s underwear.)
Moonlight spilled in the bunkhouse windows, competing with the lampshine that illuminated the pages of Mary’s Holy Bible, Big Red’s Ranch Romances and Debbie’s The Way of Zen.
Moonlight ghosted the cheeks of girls sleeping and girls pretending to sleep.
A single moonbeam quivered timidly on the stock of Delores del Ruby’s blacksnake whip, where the stock protruded from beneath the sack of peyote buttons that nightly served as her pillow.
Moonlight lured Kym and Linda outdoors in their nightgowns to lean against the corral fence in silent rap-ture.
Our moon, obviously, has surrendered none of its soft charm to technology. The pitter-patter of little spaceboots has in no way diminished its mystery.
In fact, the explorations of the Apollo mechanics re-72 tomrobbins
vealed almost nothing of any real importance that was not already intimated in the Luna card of the tarot deck.
Almost nothing. There was one interesting discovery.
Some of the rocks on the moon transmit waves of energy.
At first it was feared that they might be radioactive. Instruments quickly proved that the emissions were clean, but NASA was still puzzled about the source and character of the vibrations. Rock samples were brought back to Earth by astronauts for extensive laboratory testing.
As the precise electromagnetic properties of the moon rocks continued to baffle investigators, one scientist decided just for drill to convert the waves into sound.

It’s a simple process.
When the moon vibrations were channeled into an am-plifier, the noises that pulsed out of the speaker sounded exactly like “cheese, cheese, cheese.”

20.
“sit down, dear, do sit down. Take a load off those lovely tootsies. Yes, sit right there. Would you fancy some sherry?” The decanter the Countess lifted was dusty on the outside, sticky empty inside; a stiff fly lay feet-up on its lip. “Shit O goodness, I’m all out of sherry; how about a red Ripple?” He reached into the midget refrigerator beside his desk and removed a bottle of pop wine. After a shameful amount of effort he tore loose its cap and filled two sherry glasses.
“You know what Ripple is, don’t you? It’s Kool-Aid with a hard-on. Tee hee.”
Sissy managed a polite smile. Shyly, she gazed at her glass. It was impastoed with so many fingerprints it should have been buried with J. Edgar Hoover. (At FBI headquarters in Washington, D.C., there is an agent who e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 73
can go through the fingerprint files and pick out all the trumpet players. Perhaps he is the same agent who kept returning Sissy’s file card to the Richmond regional office demanding to know why there were no thumb marks. He was in good shape and didn’t know it. There once was a family in Philadelphia that went through four generations without fingerprints at all: they were born without prints, the only known case in history. “This could present quite a problem for law enforcement,” said one public official.
“No way,” replied another. “If the police ever find a murder weapon in Philly with no prints on it, we’ll know immediately that one of them did it.”
The Countess lifted his glass in salute. “To my own special Sissy,” he toasted. “Cheers! And welcome. So my letter brought you flying, eh? Well, I may have a little surprise for you. But first, tell me about yourself. It’s been six months, hasn’t it? In some circles that’s half a year. How are you?”
“Tired,” said Sissy.
He stared at her sympathetically. “That’s the very first time in the eons that I’ve known you that I’ve ever heard you complain. You must be tired. You’ve endured the greatest hardships without a whimper. I’ve always said,

‘Sissy Hankshaw never has any bad luck because nothing seems bad luck to her. She’s never been disgraced because there is nothing which she’d acknowledge as disgrace.’
And now you’re tired, poor darling.”
“Some folks might say I had my hard luck at birth, and after dealing with that everything else was easy. A born freak can only go uphill.”
“Freak, schmeek. Most of us are freaks in one way or another. Try being born a male Russian countess into a white middle-class Baptist family in Mississippi and you’ll see what I mean.”
“I understand that. I was being facetious. You know that I’ve always been proud of the way nature singled me out. It’s the people who have been deformed by society that I feel sorry for. We can live with nature’s experiments, 74
tomrobbins
and if they aren’t too vile, turn them to our advantage.
But social deformity is sneaky and invisible; it makes people into monsters—or mice. Anyway, I’m fine. But I’ve been steady moving for eleven years and some months, you realize, and I guess I’m a tad fatigued. Maybe I should rest up for a spell. Not as young as I used to be.”
“Shit O goodness, you won’t be thirty for another year. And you’re more beautiful than ever.”
Her jumpsuit was patterned with robins and apple blossoms. It bore sweet testimony to recent laundering, but there were creases where it had been folded in her rucksack. Her lengthy blond hair fell straight; it would have been more convenient to travel with it in braids, but, alas, how could her fingers braid it? A mask of grime and road filth that no rinsing in service station ladies’ rooms could adequately remove clung to her face. In the pores of her crisp nose and high forehead was the residue of various fossil fuels as well as flea’s-eye particles of Idaho, Minnesota and western New Jersey: clay, sand, loam, mud, pollen, cement, ore and humus. The dirty veil with which hitchhiking draped her features was one reason why her identity as a model had been fairly simple to

conceal. If the Countess wanted her to pose, he’d have to steam her for a day or two in his private bath. Still, the sunshine that was projected in the office windows, having first passed through the green filter of Central Park, showed the Countess to be no snaky flatterer: Sissy was beautiful, indeed.
“Does that mean you might have an assignment for me?”
There was a long pause, during which the Countess tapped his monocle with his cigarette holder, during which a squirrel successfully crossed Park Avenue, during which the twentieth century flicked its pea under another shell, catching a few million more suckers with their bets in the wrong places.
“You were the Yoni Yum/Dew Girl from, let’s see, from nineteen sixty-two through nineteen sixty-eight.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 75
That’s a long time in this business. It was a brilliant campaign, if I do say so, and it was a good association. But it can’t be repeated. One can’t repeat oneself. Not and dredge any flavor out of life. Now, I’ve been using you two, three times a year, in trade magazine ads only, ever since. And I may use you again. I probably shall. You’re my eternal favorite. Princess Grace herself couldn’t be better, not even if she had your personality, which she doesn’t; I am by proclamation official feminine hygienist to the Court of Monaco and I know, but that’s telling tales out of school. Anyway, dear, I’m out of photography now and into watercolors. Whole new campaign about to start, built around incredibly lyrical watercolor paintings. Ah, how circuitous conversation is! We’re back at the beginning. The exact man I’ve wanted you to meet is my artist, the watercolorist.”
Sissy dared a sip of Ripple. “If I’m not going to pose for him, why do you want me to meet him?”
“Purely personal. I believe you might enjoy one another.”
“But, Countess . . .”
“Now now. Don’t get exasperated. I realize that you’ve always avoided all but

the most rudimentary involvements with men, and, I might add, you’ve been wise. Heterosexual relationships seem to lead only to marriage, and for most poor dumb brainwashed women marriage is the climactic experience. For men, marriage is a matter of efficient logistics: the male gets his food, bed, laundry, TV, pussy, offspring and creature comforts all under one roof, where he doesn’t have to dissipate his psychic energy thinking about them too much—then he is free to go out and fight the battles of life, which is what existence is all about. But for a woman, marriage is surrender. Marriage is when a girl gives up the fight, walks off the battlefield and from then on leaves the truly interesting and significant action to her husband, who has bargained to ‘take care’ of her. What a sad bum deal. Women live longer than men because they really haven’t been living. Better blue-76
tomrobbins
in-the-face dead of a heart attack at fifty than a healthy seventy-year-old widow who hasn’t had a piece of life’s action since girlhood. Shit O goodness, how I do go on.”
The Countess refilled his glass. The squirrel started across Park Avenue again but didn’t make it. A uniformed chauffeur got out of a limousine and held the crushed animal up where it could be seen by the elderly woman passenger, who next week would make a twenty-five-dollar donation to the SPCA.
“But here you are, still a virgin—you are virginal yet, aren’t you?”
“Why, yes, technically. Jack Kerouac and I came awfully close, but he was
afraid of me, I think . . .”
“Yes, well, what I’m getting at is that there comes a time when it is psychologically impossible for a woman to lose her virginity. She can’t wait too long, you know.
Now, there’s no reason why you must lose yours. You’re so much better off than most women. You’ve remained on the battleground, center stage, experiencing life and, what’s more important, experiencing yourself experiencing it. You haven’t been reduced to a logistical strategy for somebody else’s lifewar. I’m not suggesting that you capitulate. But maybe you should pause—now in your weariness is a perfect opportunity—and consider if perhaps you aren’t missing something of magnitude; consider if perhaps you wouldn’t want to experience a

romantic relationship before, well, frankly, before it may be too late. I mean, just ponder it a bit, that’s all.”
“What makes you think this watercolorist and I would develop a romantic relationship?” Sissy’s brow was spaghettied.
“I can’t be certain that you would. Furthermore, I can’t imagine why I would want you to. I mean, you’ve always smelled so nice. Like a little sister. The irony has just killed me.” The Countess’s teeth began a faster clack.
“You, the Dew Girl, one of the few girls who doesn’t need Dew. I loath the stink of females!” The clatter grew louder. “They are so sweet the way God made them; then e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 77
they start fooling around with men and soon they’re stinking. Like rotten mushrooms, like an excessively chlorinated swimming pool, like a tuna fish’s retirement party. They all stink. From the Queen of England to Bonanza Jellybean, they stink.” The dental flamenco hit a delirious tempo, a bulería, a Gypsy flurry of too many notes too soon.
“Bonanza Jellybean?”
“What? Oh yes. Tee hee. Jellybean.” As the Countess’s jaw muscles calmed down, his dentures eased into a samba. “She’s a young thing who works on my ranch.
Real name is Sally Jones or something wooden like that.
She’s cute as a hot fudge taco, and, of course, it takes verve to change one’s name so charmingly. But she stinks like a slut just the same.”
“Your ranch?”
“Oh my dear yes, I bought a little ranch out West. Sort of a tribute to the women of America who have cooperated with me in eliminating their odor. A tax write- off, actually. You’ll have to see it sometime. Meanwhile, back to business at hand. Why don’t you consider meeting my artist? You admitted you needed a rest. I’m going out to East Hampton to gossip with Truman for a few days. You can light at my place and relax. I’ll put Julian in touch with you there. Perhaps you can go out together, have some fun. Come on, Sissy love, give it a try. What

have you got to lose?”
The Countess was a genius, all right. He asked the one question that Sissy could never answer: what have you got to lose?
“Well, okay. I’ll try it. I don’t see the point in it, but I’ll try it. Just for you. It’s kind of silly, actually, me going out with an artist in New York City. However . . .” (Was that old limbic telephone purring on its hook again? After all, she had asked for an unlisted number.)
“Good, good, good,” the Countess cooed. “You’ll enjoy it, you’ll see. Julian is a gentleman.”
Suddenly, the Countess swiveled in his desk chair and 78 tomrobbins
leaned forward. Lowering his wine glass, he focused directly, intensely into Sissy’s blue eyes. His rip of a smile widened until it was a job for a body-and- fender shop.
He had been waiting for this moment.
“By the way, Sissy,” he said very slowly, accentuating every syllable, clacking one beat at a time. “By the way.
He’s a full-blooded Indian.”

21.
she had made Mack trucks rear back on their axles, caused Mercedes-Benzes to forget about Wagner, stopped Cadillacs as cold as a snowman’s heart attack. Torpedoes changed their courses for her, planes dived, submarines surfaced, Lincoln Continentals straightened their neck-ties. Wherever traffic flowed she had fished its waters, hooking Barracuda and Stingrays, throwing back Honda minibikes and garden tractors. At her signal, Jeeps and Chryslers fell over one another, Mercurys and Ramblers went into trance, VW’s halted with a Prussian exactitude, Chevies executed the shim sham shimmy and toddlers begged to pull her to San Francisco in their little red wagons. Once she made a Rolls-Royce brake so abruptly they had to fly a man in from the factory to scrape up the rubber. While stickers peeled off bumpers, Confederate flags wrapped themselves around radio aerials and exhaust pipes farted the overture from “My Fair Lady,” she had commandeered every vehicle manufactured by man in his manic horsepowerphilia, from a Stutz Bearcat to a Katz Pajama—but she could not seem to attract an elevator.
“Maybe you have to call on the phone to get an elevator to come up to the penthouse. Maybe the buzzer is broken. Maybe I’m doing something wrong.”
Sissy had been waiting ten minutes. She felt trapped.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 79
Where was the elevator? Why wouldn’t it respond? Teardrops were poking their bald heads out of her ducts.
It was more than just the elevator. Three days before, the Countess had procured a dress and buttoned her into it. She had agreed that it looked very nice. Then he went off—monocle, cigarette holder and everything—to Long Island, leaving her alone. The first evening, the watercolorist hadn’t phoned. Sissy couldn’t unbutton the dress, and to sleep in it would have left it geriatrically wrinkled.
So she had sat up all night. She had watched TV, sipped red Ripple (the only

beverage her host had in supply), read the New York Times and chanced pleased looks in the mirror. Alone on a June night in a seven-room penthouse. It had been strange.
At approximately ten in the morning the telephone rang. A voice that might have belonged to a Grecian urn, so soft and round and cultured it sounded, identified itself as belonging, instead, to Julian Gitche. Would Sissy Hankshaw please have dinner with Julian Gitche and friends on Friday next? Yes, Sissy Hankshaw would. The Countess’s phone (a Princess—royalty sticks together) and, presum- ably, Julian Gitche’s, had been replaced in the cradle. Dinner on Friday. It was then Wednesday.
As through the second TV-humming night she sat upright in the yoga position known as the dress-protecting asana, she reminded herself of Betty Clanton and the other girls of South Richmond High, setting their hair, combing it out, painting their lips, rouging their cheeks, washing their sweaters, pressing their skirts, primping away the hours and days of their youth in the peahen hope that for one blushing moment they could distract a boy from football. Nature had spared Sissy that as a teen-ager—
but, mama, look at her now! Every hour or so, she became angry at herself, sprang up and announced to whatever television personality happened to be facing her that she was going to bed. She did not.
Thursday night was much the same, except that she was sleepier, angrier, more nervous. Newspapers, with their 80
tomrobbins
quaint accounts of politics and economics, TV, with its heroic policemen, could no longer amuse her. Red Ripple in hand, she fled to the balcony. She had passed the point where fresh air was of much use in reviving her, but she felt less confined pacing a patio in the New York sky.
“This is stupid, really dumb,” she told herself. “But if I’m going to do it I might as well do it right. I can’t go to dinner in a good New York restaurant wearing a wrinkled sack. I’m used to skipping sleep on the road. I can make it.” Serenity once again illuminated the corners of her mouth, although her eyes, over which the lids drooped like detectives’ bellies, failed to notice.

It was a cloudless night with only moderate smog. A furry northeaster was blowing in over Coney Island and Brooklyn, bringing to the upper East Side a teasing sniff of the ocean. Trembling with energy, unable to contain itself, Manhattan was popping wheelies beneath her. In every direction, her tired eyes saw flashing lights, lights that caromed off the horizons and joined with the stars in the sky. The city seemed to be inhaling Benzedrine and exhaling light; a neon- lunged Buddha chanting and vibrating in a temple of filth.
It was difficult for her to imagine that an American Indian was at home somewhere down there. Where exactly did he live, she wondered; which lights shone in his windows? What was he doing at this moment? Sleeping?
(Sleep was bright on her mind.) Drinking—the way the Indians drank in LaConner, Taos, Pine Ridge, etc.? Performing a clandestine ghost dance or chanting to his private totem as prescribed in the dreamer religion?
Watching “Custer” on TV? Painting watercolors? Until the dawn, she paced and pondered.
The day that followed had been a blur of boredom and misery; she was more asleep than awake. She found a loaf of Wonder Bread and wadded the soft individual slices into balls, as she had done when a kid, eating the bread balls on the balcony while watching traffic. Mostly, she sat around. (Were it not such an obvious understatement, we e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 81
might say that she twiddled her thumbs.) When, however, at 7:45 p.m., Julian Gitche called to announce that he was downstairs, her central nervous system treated itself to a double adrenalin on the rocks. She flashed into consciousness, inspected herself—wrinkle-free!—in the mirror, took a pee and headed for the elevator. She had arranged to meet him in the lobby. Somehow it had seemed inappropriate to her to receive Mr. Gitche in the Countess’s penthouse, with its frilly, sloppy and decidedly un-Indian décor.
Now Sissy was waiting for an elevator. She waited with a fatigue-induced approximation of that combination of stoicism and anxiety with which people wait for the Big Event that will transform their lives, invariably missing it when it does occur since both stoicism and anxiety are blinders.
At last, as she was on the brink of weeping, she heard a ping and saw a wink of green. A door slid open with a mechanical slur, to reveal a uniformed elevator

operator looking sheepish and not altogether unafraid. Having suffered the Countess’s ire on previous occasions, he was on the alert for a walking stick that might be mistaking his skull for a grand promenade. Relieved at seeing Sissy alone, he expressed her to the lobby at maximum speed.
The carpet felt like meadow to her hallucinating feet.
The bronze fountain sounded like a mountain creek. Her redman glided from behind a tree (so what if it was a potted palm?). He was wearing a plaid dinner jacket and a yellow cummerbund. Of medium height, his shoulders were narrow, his face babified and puddingish. Approaching her, he smiled shyly. He reached to shake her hand—
and fell immediately to his knees with an asthma attack. COWGIRLINTERLUDE (LOVESTORY)
Some of the younger ranch hands—Donna, Kym and Heather; Debbie, too— have wondered aloud why Even Cowgirls Get the Blues couldn’t be a simple love story.
82
tomrobbins
Unfortunately, little darlings, there is no such thing as a simple love story. The most transitory puppy crush is complex to the extent of lying beyond the far reaches of the brain’s understanding. (The brain has a dangerous habit of messing around with stuff it cannot or will not comprehend.)
Your author has found love to be the full trip, emotionally speaking; the grand tour: fall in love, visit both Heaven and Hell for the price of one. And that doesn’t begin to cover it. If realism can be defined only as one of the fifty-seven varieties of decoration, then how can we hope for a realistic assessment of love?
No, the author has no new light to beam on the subject.

After all, though people have been composing love songs for at least a thousand years, it wasn’t until the late 1960s that any romantic ballad expressed a new idea. In his song
“Triad” ( “Why can’t we go on as three?” ), David Crosby offered the ménage à trois as a possible happy remedy for the triangularization that seems to be to love what hoof-and-mouth disease is to cattle (to employ an analogy that any cowgirl can understand). Bold David (Grace Slick of Jefferson Airplane recorded his song) sought to transport love beyond its dualistic limits; to accept the three- sided configuration as an inevitability, perceiving it as positive, building upon it, expanding it, drawing lines in different directions (“. . . in time there may be others”). But Crosby’s Euclidean approach complicates love rather than simplifies it. And it is doubtful whether many lovers could endure further complications. As a visitor to the clockworks once heard the Chink say, “If it’s sloppy, eat it over the sink.”
So trot your ponies, honeys, and accept the tangled facts, knowing that your author would prefer to write a simple love story if it were possible. How refreshing to deal with something subjective, intuitive or, best of all, mystical! But the serious writer, like his brother the scientist, has been reduced to dealing with the mere objective.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 83

22.
just as a piece of shell can take all the fun out of an egg salad sandwich, just as the advent of an Ice Age can poop a million garden parties, just as a disbelief in magic can force a poor soul into believing in government and business, so can a fit of asthma rather spoil the first date between a young woman and an Indian.
Sissy didn’t know what to do. Initially, she thought Julian was reacting to the sight of her thumbs, although the Countess had sworn that he had made his watercolorist fully cognizant of Sissy’s anatomical embellishments. At one time or another, folks had sniggered at her, pointed, blanched, blinked, clucked, snapped hurried snapshots, bitten their tongues and fallen off barstools, but this reaction took the cake, and the pie, too. They weren’t that big.
Should she try to assist him, or flee?
Conveniently, from the other side of the lobby Julian’s friends came to the rescue. They were two well-groomed couples, white, mid-thirtyish and middle- class. The younger of the men took charge. He broke an inhaler of epinephrine under Julian’s nose. The epinephrine hormone relaxed the smooth muscles in the small bronchi of the victim’s lungs, allowing air to pass more freely in and out.
Within moments his breathing had improved. However, the attack was severe and Julian continued to whistle and wheeze. His chest sounded like the trombone section of the old Stan Kenton orchestra. His chest was playing
“Stars Fell on Alabama.” Nobody danced.
“We’d better take you home,” the man in charge said to Julian. As it turned out, he and Julian had once been room-mates, so that’s why he knew how to handle the attack.
Embarrassed, and in the red of embarrassment looking 84 tomrobbins
more Indian than he had previously, Julian begged Sissy’s pardon. In wheeze- ventilated and cough-derailed speech, he managed to tell her:

“I’ve been enthralled with your photographs for years.
When the Countess hinted that you might like to meet me—he never explained why—I was ready to paint for him free of charge. And now I had to go and spoil it.”
It was Sissy’s turn to redden. Her one-sixteenth came swimming to surface, matching Julian’s full measure of uncompromised blood. Although uncomfortable, she was moved by his lament. The emotions she felt were almost counter to the ones she had imagined this talented Indian would inspire in her. Once again (as in Madame Zoe’s trailer), she found herself on top of a situation that she had expected would dominate her. Through the blush, her mysterious calm smile stirred and slowly beat its wings, a seabird ascending through a spray of tomato soup.
The man who took charge was named Rupert, a salesman for a publishing house. His wife was Carla, a home-maker, as they say. The other couple broke down into Howard and Marie Barth, both copywriters for an ad agency. While Rupert helped Julian to the street, Howard hailed a cab and Carla and Marie fluttered around Sissy.
“This is dreadful,” Marie said. She lowered her voice, becoming confidential. “You know, asthma attacks are brought on by emotional stress. Poor Julian is so high-strung. The excitement of meeting you—my dear, you look so stunning!— must have upset his chemical balance.” Carla nodded. “It’ll be all right, dear. It isn’t as serious as it sounds.” She started to pat Sissy’s hand, then thought better of it.
The six of them squeezed into a taxi. Can you guess how humiliating that was for our Sissy, ushered insensitively into a vehicle that she had not snared in her net of meat and gesture? Can you appreciate that she must have felt like a hummingbird stuck in the bubblegum of pedes-trianism? Would you invite Thelonius Monk to your e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 85
house and not let him play your piano? Would you shove an arthritic nanny goat into the ring with El Cordobes?
Lord! She sat upon that taxi upholstery in frosty revulsion, like a queen compelled to squat over a ditch latrine; and why not? For she was Sissy Hankshaw, who had carved out an identity for herself in the vast realm of

personal idiosyncrasy instead of carving it out of someone else’s flesh, as is normally the case; Sissy Hankshaw, who, following a suggestion from nature, had created herself and then paraded her creation before ye gods and planets that whirl above our daily routine; Sissy Hankshaw, who proved that grandiose ambition need not be Faustian, at least not for a woman in motion. Einstein had observed motion and learned that space and time are relative; Sissy had committed herself to motion and learned that one could alter reality by one’s perception of it—and it was that discovery, perhaps no less a one than Einstein’s, that finally allowed her to smile away humiliation just as a short while earlier she had smiled away fatigue.
The taxi, having no free will, rolled downtown.

23.
new york city. June 21, 1972. Eight-thirty in the evening, according to the position of two mechanical hands on an arbitrary dial. Mars is in the House of Virgo, Jupiter is in the House of Values and Venus is in the House of Pies. The weather: hot hokey puppy poopie with billows of industrial paranoia at 600 feet. Manhattan smells like the litter box for the Kitty of the World. It has twisted its body into the dog-shit asana. Close by but far away, in a world beyond odors, ghosts of the original inhabitants are laughing their feathers off, remembering how they’d 86
tomrobbins
stuck the white devils with this doomed piece of real estate for some very chic beads and a box of Dutch Masters.
The Big Apple, polished with Rockefeller spit and wiped on the tight pants of a multitude of Puerto Ricans, is ready for the chomps and nibbles of Friday- nighters from everywhere. Junkies are stirring in their warrens, pizzas are primping in their ovens, Wall Street is resting its bloody butthole and the Statue of Liberty wears a frown that won’t quit. As City College professors, disgruntled over martinis, talk about dropping out and farming rhubarb in Oregon, neon signs all over town rejoice because it’s the shortest night of the year. Headline on the front page of the New York Daily News: the chink sums it up, says life is hard if you think it’s hard.
New York City. In progress. Not a cowgirl in sight.
Taxi cabs are pulling up in front of restaurants and theaters, and one pulls up in front of a remodeled tenement on East Tenth Street, between Third and Second avenues, three blocks west of where young Latins have all but taken away Tompkins Square Park from old Ukrainians and winos of indeterminate age and national origin. This block of East Tenth, freshly painted, maintains some class: behind its barred windows and triple-locked doors with chains à la mode, professional people, some with a creative bent, are holding their own against the constant onslaught of soot, cockroaches and burglars. In this block Hubert Selby, Jr., wrote Last Exit to Brooklyn, and a famous art critic ponders hourly the

problem that inherent pictorial-ism presents to the ongoing mainstream of modernism.
The taxi has stopped in front of the building where the wheezy Julian Gitche resides. It discharges its passengers, all too slowly for the taste of Sissy Hankshaw, who holds exhaustion and revulsion at bay only with the aid of the Great Secret (which, as we’ve determined, is this: one has not only an ability to perceive the world but an ability to alter his perception of it; or, more simply, one can change things by the manner in which one looks at them).
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 87
As tired as she is, Sissy has a single flame-edged longing—to get on the road
and hoist her thumbs in the wind.
However, she is buttoned into an expensive linen dress, is hemmed in by four persuasive people and is held by fine threads of curiosity and sympathy to this Gentleman’s Quarterly parody of an Indian who curds up with mucus every time he tries to speak to her. So she employs the Great Secret to turn her predicament into an educational, if not entertaining, experience.
Julian’s apartment is second floor front. It’s neat and clean, with waxed hardwood floors, a wall of exposed brick, a white piano, books and paintings everywhere.
There is a blue velour sofa upon which Julian is made to lie. While Howard mixes Scotch and sodas, Rupert fills a syringe from a vial of aminophylline he has taken from its place behind a gelatin salad mold in the refrigerator. He gives Julian an injection.
“There, that ought to beat them bronchial buggers into submission,” he says to Julian. Then, to Sissy, “I was a medic in the Army. I really should have become a doctor.
Sometimes, though, I feel that pushing books is a whole lot like pushing medicine. Think of books as pills. I have pills that cure ignorance and pills that cure boredom. I have pills to elevate moods and pills to open people’s eyes to the awful truth: uppers and downers, as it were. I sell pills to help people find

themselves and pills to help them lose themselves when they require escape from the pressures and anxieties of life in a complex society . . .”
“Too bad you don’t have a pill for bullshit.” Carla smiles as if she were joking, but she’d said it tartly. Rupert glares and takes a big bite of Scotch.
“Where do you live, Miss Hankshaw,” asks Howard, trying, perhaps, to change the subject.
“I’m staying with the Countess.”
“I know,” says Howard, “but where do you reside when you aren’t visiting New York?”
“I don’t.”
88
tomrobbins
“You don’t? ”
“Well, no, I don’t reside anywhere in particular. I just keep moving.” Everyone looks a bit astonished, including the recumbent Julian.
“A traveler, eh?” says Howard.
“You might say that,” says Sissy, “although I don’t think of it as traveling.” “How do you think of it?” asks Carla.
“As moving.”
“Oh,” says Carla.
“How . . . unusual,” says Marie.
“Mmmmm,” mumbles Howard.

Rupert bites into his Scotch again. Julian issues a watery wheeze.
The silence that follows is soon broken by Carla. “Rupert, before you get too engrossed in your research on Scotch as a cure for aging, don’t you think you’d better phone Elaine’s and cancel our dinner reservations? We’ll never get in again if we just don’t show up.”
“What would we do without you, Carla? Without our little efficiency expert, Carla, everything would just go to hell. Carla is thinking about running for mayor next year, aren’t you Carla?”
“Up yours, Herr Doktor Book Salesman. Will the demands of your medical practice allow you to call Elaine’s or shall I?”
“Oh let me do it,” pipes Marie. The short, vivacious brunette lifts herself out of her platform shoes and glides in stocking feet to the telephone.
“Speaking of running for office,” says Howard pleasantly. “Does anybody think McGovern has a chance?”
“Do you mean a chance to be canonized or a chance to be assassinated?” asks Rupert.
“If Rupert needs a bullshit pill then Hubert Humphrey needs two,” says Carla. “And that might be McGovern’s role. If he can turn off Humphrey’s fountain of corn then McGovern has done the sensibility of America a great fa-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 89
vor, even if he forces his party to nominate a jingoist creep like Scoop Jackson in Miami Beach.”
Like many of their liberal counterparts, the friends of Julian Gitche are disillusioned with politics, but also like their counterparts they have failed to discover an alternative to politics in which to place their faith, channel their humanism or indulge their penchant for conflict and speculation. Thus, the conversation around the red patient on the blue sofa drifts to the upcoming national political conventions. When Marie returns from phoning the restaurant, she joins in.
Sissy leaves her chair and wanders about the apartment.

Its full bookshelves remind her of public libraries in which she has napped. Wandering, she holds her thumbs close to her side, lest she nudge an antique, totter an objet d’art, smear a picture glass or agitate the pet poodle. She is intrigued but suffers no illusions; she knows she is in an alien environment.
Eventually her explorations lead her into the bedroom, where there is a covered birdcage of Florentine design.
She wishes its inhabitants were not sleeping, for she “has a way” with birds. She recalls Boy, the runaway parakeet who for a time was the sole exception to her rule to go always alone. Boy’s owners had clipped his wings, but once Sissy taught him how, he hitchhiked as well as some birds fly. That Boy is a cinch to go down in the Parakeet Hall of Fame.
Hoping to hear a cheep that might indicate insomnia in the cage, Sissy sits upon the double bed. Gradually, she reclines. “No Indian blankets,” she notes. “No Indian blankets.” And that is the last thought she has before she blacks out.
Two hours pass before she is awakened—by a sound softer than a cheep. It is the sound of buttons passing through buttonholes. Buttons that have not breathed freely in three days are sighing with relief, their yokes lifted, their nooses loosened. One by one, button necks are freed from the trap that is the fate of most buttons the 90
tomrobbins
way that compromises are the fate of most men. Soon Sissy cannot only hear button liberation; she can feel it.
Someone is undressing her. And it is not Julian Gitche.

24.
“where are the others?” asked Sissy, in a voice webby with sleep.
“Oh, Rupert and Carla had a little hassle and went home,” said Howard.
“Julian fell asleep on the couch; we covered him up,”
said Marie.
“We thought that we should make you comfortable, too,” said Howard.
“Yes, dear,” said Marie. “We’ve been watching you here sleeping and you looked so sweet. We thought we should help you get comfy for the night.”
Sissy thought that quite considerate of the Barths. They were a couple as amicable as they were handsome. She did wonder, however, why they were both in their underwear.
Between the two of them, they had her out of her dress in no time.
“There, isn’t that better?” inquired Marie.
“Yes, thanks,” said Sissy. She did feel more comfortable, but she also felt as if she should apologize for not having on a brassiere. Bra hooks can test the most agile of thumbs, as many a frustrated boy will testify, and Sissy had been unable to wear that garment whose name in French means, enigmatically, “arm protector,” since she had left her mama. Light seeping in from a crack in the bathroom door gave a strawberry sheen to her gumdrop-shaped nipples. She hoped she wasn’t embarrassing these nice people.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 91
Oh my goodness, she must have been, for in a second Marie slipped out of her own brassiere—in an effort, obviously, to make Sissy feel less conspicuous.

Marie moved her bare bosom close to Sissy’s. The two sets of nipples stiffened in formal greeting, like diplomats from small nations. “Mine are fuller but yours are more perfectly shaped,” observed Marie. She leaned closer. The envoys exchanged state secrets.
“Highly debatable,” said Howard. “I’ll wager they’re the exact same size.” Judiciously, in the spirit of fair play that characterizes his profession, he cupped his left hand about a Marie breast and his right about one of Sissy’s.
He weighed them in his palms, squeezed them the way an honest grocer squeezes excess water from a lettuce, let his spread fingers sample their circumference. “Hmmm.
Yours are larger, Marie, but Miss Hankshaw’s—Sissy’s—
are more firm. You’d think they would have started to droop; I mean, from not
wearing a bra.”
“Howard! Watch your manners. You’ve made her blush. Here, Sissy, let me compare.” Marie seized Sissy’s free breast, quickly, like a monkey picking a fruit, rolling it about in her hungry little fingers, rubbing it against her chin and cheeks.
Now, Sissy became more awake. Consciousness returned and when it unpacked its bags, there was suspicion in them. She shouldn’t be staying, uninvited, in the bedroom of an ill man with whom she’d scarcely spoken. She ought to get back to the Countess’s. Did Mr. and Mrs.
Barth have her best interests at heart? She had been so relieved to get out of that dress that she hadn’t considered hanky-panky. She wondered if this friendly couple could be up to something?
Her question was answered by a hand—she was not sure whose—creeping into her panties. She tried to turn away from its probings, but her cunt, without her knowledge or permission, had grown quite slippery, and a finger fell into it almost as if by accident.
Lowered steadily, like a flag at sunset, her panties were 92 tomrobbins

soon below her knees. She thought she felt a second finger slish into her pussy, but before that could be confirmed, still another finger muscled up her asshole . . . and . . .
ohhh. It was like her early days as a hitchhiker. It was nostalgic; it was disgusting; it was . . . ohhh.
Philosophers, poets, painters and scholars, debate all you want on the nature of beauty!
Tropical plums. Wine in a rowboat. Clouds, babies and Buddhas, resembling one another. Bicycle bells. Honeysuckle. Parachutes. Shooting stars seen through lace curtains. A silver radio that attracts butterflies; a déjà that just won’t quit vuing. Han-shan wrote, after a moment of ecstasy, “This place is finer than the place I live!”
Across Sissy’s lips passed Marie’s tongue, then Howard’s tongue, then Marie’s titty, then Howard’s . . .
then Howard’s . . . Howard’s . . . !!! One by one, like apartments in a new high- rise, orifices were being filled.
Anima mixed with animus. It was Marie who was climbing her, sliding around on her, pulling down her own panties with a wild hand. Marie nuzzled Sissy’s calves, then her thighs. Marie’s mouth, oozing hot saliva, apparently had a destination. But before it could be reached, Howard entered his wife from the rear.
Ah, sir penis, that old show-stopper! Chalk up another stolen scene for the one- eyed matinée idol. Marie could not suck for groaning.
Like a disc jockey from Paradise, Howard flipped Marie over and played her B side. Every now and again, he reached for Sissy, attempting to include her, but certain laws of physics insisted on being obeyed. Over and over, Marie called Sissy’s name, but her eyes were half-closed and her caresses blind and scattered.
The Barths were really going at it. It would tax a day’s output at the Countess’s factory to quell the spreading funk in that room. Marie was kind of yowling, sounding so much like a cat that the poodle in the kitchen began to grrr. God knows what the birds in their cage were thinking.

e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 93
“So this is what it’s like,” thought Sissy. Fascinated, she propped herself up on her elbows to observe. Often she had imagined the act, but she was never entirely sure she imagined it correctly, not even after that evening of embracing Kerouac in a Colorado corn field. “So this is what it’s really like.” The Great Secret could be returned to its bottle. Perceptual transformations were no longer necessary. This truly was educational.
In truth, Sissy found it more interesting than the canoe races at LaConner, Washington, more interesting than the San Andreas Fault, or Niagara Falls, or Bonnie and Clyde State Park, or Tapioca State Pudding—of course, Sissy never was one for sightseeing. She even found it more interesting than the Tobacco Festival, although not so much a challenge to the wiles of her thumbs.
Before the performance was over, however, and to Howard and Marie’s dismay, Sissy debedded on a particularly high bounce and walked out. She pattered to the living room couch and crawled under the cover with Julian.
There she stayed three days.

25.
they had a lot to talk about.
Julian was still in his formal trousers, cummerbund attached, while Sissy was nude as she had ever been, and was smeared, besides, with those feminine juices, both her own and Marie’s, that gave the Countess nose trouble—
but the sofa-mates refused to let those differences stand in their way; they had a lot to talk about and there were larger differences than dress.
It would seem that Julian Gitche had dealt with the world by combining pigment with water in varying vis-cosities and making it spread, leak, splash, pour, spray, 94
tomrobbins
soak or fold onto a chosen paper format in selected tones, hues, volumes, shapes and lines. Sissy Hankshaw had dealt with the world by hitchhiking with a dedication, perspective and style such as the world had never seen. It was as befuddling to Sissy that an Indian would spend his life painting genteel watercolors in a bourgeois milieu as it was mind-wrenching to Julian that a bright, pretty, if slightly afflicted, young woman with a promising modeling career would spend hers endlessly hitchhiking.
“You have a romantic concept of Indians,” said Julian.
“They are people, like any other; a people whose time has passed. I see no virtue in wallowing in the past, especially a past that was more often miserable than not. I am a Mohawk Indian in the same sense that Spiro Agnew is a Greek: a descendant, nothing more. And believe me, the Mohawk never approximated the glory that was Greece.
My grandfather was one of the first Mohawks to work as a steel-rigger in New York City; you know Mohawks are used extensively on sky-scraper construction because they have no fear of height. My dad helped build the Em-pire State Building. Later, he founded his own steeplejack service, and despite prejudices against him by the unions and so forth for being an uppity redskin, he made a

great deal of money. Enough to send me to Yale. I have a masters degree in fine arts and fairly good connections in Manhattan art circles. Primitive cultures, Indian or otherwise, hold a minimum of attraction for me. I cherish the firm order of symmetry that marks Western civilization off from the more heterogeneous, random societies in an imperfect world.”
In the limited space of the sofa, Sissy turned over, ding-ing one of her Howard- and-Marie accentuated nipples against one of Julian’s shirt studs. “I don’t know anything about this order and symmetry business. I’m a high school dropout from a race—the Poor White Trash race—
that has done nothing for ten centuries but pick up rocks, hoe weeds, sweat in factories and march off to war whenever told to; and each generation has begot a smaller po-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 95
tato patch. But I’ve spent some time in libraries, not all of it asleep, and I have learned this: every civilized culture in history has discriminated against its abnormal members.
‘Schizophrenia’ is a civilized Western term, and so are
‘witch’ and ‘misfit’—terms used to rationalize the cruel and unusual punishments doled out to extraordinary people. Yet the American Indian tribes, as you ought to know, treated their freaks as special beings. Their schizoids were recognized as having a gift, the power of visions, and were revered for it. The physically deformed were also regarded as favorites of the Great Spirit, welcome reliefs to the monotony of anatomical regularity, and everybody loved them, enjoyed them and paid them favor. In that ancient Greece that you find so glorious, somebody like me would have been killed at birth.”
“Now, Sissy, you’re being overly sensitive and defensive. You saw how you were treated last night by my highly civilized friends. Why, not one of us even looked at your . . . your . . . your . . . thumbs.”
“Exactly my point,” said Sissy.
And so that argument went. The other one went something like this.
“Aside from everything else, Sissy, I fail to see how you’ve even survived. My God! A girl, alone, on the roads, for years. And not killed or injured or outraged

or taken sick.”
“Women are tough and rather coarse. They were built for the raw, crude work of bearing children. You’d be amazed at what they can do when they divert that baby-hatching energy into some other enterprise.”
“Okay, that may well be true. But what an enterprise!
Hitchhiking. Bumming rides. I think of hitchhiking I think of college kids, servicemen and penniless hippies. I think of punks in oily denims and maniacs with butcher knives hidden in their wad of rumpled belongings . . .”
“I’ve been told that I looked like an angel beside the highway.” “Oh, I’m sure you are a beautiful exception to the rule.
96
tomrobbins
But why? Why bother? You’ve traveled your whole life without destination. You move but you have no direction.”
“What is the ‘direction’ of the Earth in its journey; where are the atoms ‘going’ when they spin?”
“There’s an orderly pattern, some ultimate purpose in the movements of Nature. You’ve been constantly on the move for nearly twelve years. Tell me one thing that you’ve proven.”
“I’ve proven that people aren’t trees, so it is false when they speak of roots.” “Aimless . . .”
“Not aimless. Not in the least. It’s just that my aims are different from most. There are plenty of aimless people on the road, all right. People who hitchhike from kicks to kicks, restlessly, searching for something: looking for America, as Jack Kerouac put it, or looking for themselves, or looking for some relation

between America and themselves. But I’m not looking for anything. I’ve found something.”
“What is it that you’ve found?” “Hitchhiking.”
That stopped Julian for a while, but on the second day, long after Howard and Marie had tiptoed out of his apartment, he returned to the subject. He could not appreciate Sissy’s accomplishments. So what if she had once flagged down thirty-four cars in succession without a miss? What merit in the feat of crossing Texas blindfolded in cyclone season with a parakeet on her thumb? He viewed such deeds as pathetically, sophomorically, wanton. He shook his unpainted and featherless head sadly when he considered the police record (arrests for vagrancy, illegal solicitation of rides and, ironically, suspicion of prostitution) of an essentially respectable woman.
So effectively did he chide her about it that a vaguely guilty gloom arrived in her eyes, its cold feet shuffling in the dampness there. He wrung sniffles out of her, and e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 97
when she was appropriately unhappy, he comforted her.
He held her tightly in protective arms, built a castle around her, dug a moat, raised the drawbridge. Only her mama had ever held her like that, cooing in her ear. He petted her with poodle-petting hands, so soft they could get splinters from eating with chopsticks. He cuddled her as if she were an infant. He insulated her bare wires. And she, Sissy, who had slept in the excesses of every season, uncared for and without a care, snuggled down deeply in Julian’s paternal tenderness and let herself be coddled.
It was at this point—Julian cooing, Sissy purring—that the magic that had attended her thumbs from the moment in her youth when she first made her commitment to a life less shallow, safe and small than our society demands of us, excused itself, tiptoed out of the apartment like Howard and Marie and strolled down to Stanley’s Bar on Avenue B for a beer.
Beer does not satisfy magic, however. So the magic ordered a round of Harvey Wallbangers. But it takes more than vodka to fuel magic. It takes risks. It takes extremes.

COWGIRLINTERLUDE (DELORESDELRUBY)
Some folks said she had scaled a convent wall in San Antonio and run away with a Mexican circus. Others claimed she had been the favored daughter of a prominent Creole family in New Orleans, until she got mixed up with an alligator cult that practiced peyoteism. Still others said she was Gypsy, through and through, while one source insisted that—like so many “Spanish” dancers—
she was actually Italian or Jewish, and had picked up her routines watching Zorro on television in the Bronx.
One thing all the cowgirls agreed on, however, was that their forewoman flicked an educated lash, so none dis-98
tomrobbins
puted the story that she had acquired her first whip when she was five years old, a gift from an uncle who had said, upon presentation, “Spare the rod and spoil the child.”
The day Delores del Ruby arrived at the Rubber Rose, a snake crawled across the dusty road that led to the ranch, carrying a card under its forked tongue. The card was the queen of spades.

26.
each time he got up, whether it was to go to the bathroom or feed his pets, Julian had removed an article of clothing, so that now, on the third day of their sofaing, he was nearly as naked as she.
The smack of kisses sounded with increasing frequency in the room; discussions and naps were of shorter duration. After she had broken down and surrendered to his protective ministrations, the last faint traces of his asthma evaporated like moth pee off a sixty-watt bulb and he found himself host to an erection.
Sissy knew just how to entertain it. She had been recently educated. She stroked it. She pushed its hood back.
She ringed its rosy. She let it throb alongside her thigh, and better yet, alongside her thumb. She maneuvered herself beneath it and guided its crabapple noggin through the seam in her being. Like a bullet of thick fish meat, it went to target.
Alas, Julian’s chimes rang before the appointed hour.
He was subjected to a sudden attack of the old premature.
And Sissy was left with her virginity intact, throttling a sticky wicket. Gitche Goo mee!
The watercolorist apologized with downcast eyes. It was Sissy’s turn to comfort. She reassured him so convincingly that he soon cheered up and began to chatter e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 99
again about such wonders as Shakespeare and Edward Al-bee, Michelangelo and Marc Chagall. “It is the measure of Western civilization,” said he, “that it can encompass in harmony, balance off, as it were, such divergent master-works as A Midsummer Night’s Dream and The American Dream, as the dome of the Sistine Chapel and the ceiling of the Paris Opera.”
Sissy sat up. Her eyes moped about the apartment, looking at but not seeing the macramé wallhangings, the volumes of Robert Frost.

“What’s the matter?” asked Julian.
After a while Sissy answered. “I’m cold,” she said.
“Here. I’ll turn down the air conditioner.”
“It’s not the air conditioner that’s making me cold.”
“Oh . . . Well, what is it? Is it . . . me?” Eyes downcast again. “It’s the piano.”
“The piano? You don’t like my white piano? Well, if you’d prefer, I mean, if you’ll be coming here often—and I hope you shall—I suppose I can have it removed. Might as well. I play badly. I’ve studied for years but I’m rotten.
The Countess says I’m the first Indian in history to be scalped by Beethoven. Ha ha.”
“It’s not the piano.”
“Oh . . . What is it then? Me?”
“It’s the books.”
“The books?”
“No. It’s the paintings.”
“The paintings? My watercolors? Well, I do use lots of blues and greens.”
“No, it’s not your paintings.”
“Not my paintings?”
“It’s the stillness.”
“My home is too quiet for you?” asked Julian incredulously, for he could plainly hear Puerto Ricans beating garbage cans in the next block.
“Not quiet. Still. Nothing moves in here. Not even your birds.”

100
tomrobbins
Sissy stood. The Countess had sent a flunky by with her rucksack, and now she walked to it.
“What are you doing?”
“Getting dressed. I’ve got to go.”
“But I don’t want you to leave. Please stay. We can go to dinner. I owe you a dinner. And tonight . . . we can . . .
really make love.”
“I have to go, Julian.”
“Why? Why do you have to go?”
“My thumbs hurt.”
“Oh, I’m sorry. Is it something usual? What can we do for them?”
“I’ve made a mistake. I’ve been negligent. I haven’t exercised. I have to hitchhike a little bit every day, no matter what. It’s like a musician practicing his scales. When I don’t practice, my timing gets off, my thumbs get stiff and sore.”
To that, Julian could not respond. Sissy Hankshaw was one of those mysteries that drop onto Earth unasked, and perhaps undeserved, like grace—like clockworks. His ancestors might have known what to do with her, but Julian Gitche did not. All of a sudden her presence seemed completely outside his frame of reference. His apartment was no longer static when she moved about it; tall, jumpsuited, globs of air orbiting her like planets of musical roses. She caused sculptures to sway on their pedestals.
The bedroom birdies came alive and flitted in their cage.
It was incomprehensible to Julian that he had presumed to be her consoling

daddy a few short hours before.
Julian had a poodle named Butterfinger, named for the candy bar that F. Scott Fitzgerald was eating when he fell dead of a coronary surprise. Julian called him Butty for short.
Butty had every fault known to dog. He was a face-licker and crotch-sniffer, a hair-shedder and corner-crapper, a shoe-chewer and guest-nipper, a garden- digger and cat-intimidator, a nylon-snagger and chair-muddyer, a scrap-begger and lap-crawler, a car-chaser and shrub-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 101
defiler, a bath-hater and air-polluter, a garbage-raider and leg-humper and, moreover, a yapper in that shrill, spoiled, obnoxious yap-style to which poodles alone may lay claim.
(Sissy, unlike most humans who travel on foot—subject to the bites and barks of canine fancy—was not a dog-hater per se; the wild dingo of Australia had her sincerest respect.) Butty was yapping as Sissy left Julian’s apartment. For once, it may have been a tolerable sound. Because of the yapping, Julian could not hear her hurrying, almost sprinting, down the stairs; Sissy could not hear the wheeze that struggled out of Julian’s lungs like a wimpy wind that blew between their worlds.
The magic caught up with her on Fourteenth Street as she headed for the George Washington Bridge.

27.
the countess was practicing dental karate.
Chop chop chop. His Princess telephone was in imminent danger of being incapacitated by a blow from the teeth.
“So she left town,” he said—chop chop. “Well, that shouldn’t surprise you. Leaving town is what Sissy is all about. But tell me, how did she strike you?”
“Extraordinary!”
“She’s obviously that. Jesus! Which would you rather have, a million dollars or one of Sissy’s thumbs full of pennies?”
“Oh you! I’m not talking about her hands. They’re difficult to ignore, I confess, but I’m speaking of her whole being. Her whole being is extraordinary. The way she talks, for example. She’s so articulate.”
“It’s high time you realized, honey babe, that a woman 102
tomrobbins
doesn’t have to give the best years of her life to Radcliffe or Smith in order to speak the English language. What’s more, those intellectual college girls have got the odor as bad as any others. Worse, I suspect. One healthy waitress probably uses more Yoni Yum each week than the entire dean’s list at Wellesley.” Chop!
Julian sighed. “I wouldn’t know about that,” he said.
“But she is extraordinary. I don’t understand her in the least, yet I’m helplessly attracted. Countess, I’m really in a dither. She’s turned my head.”
“Ninety degrees to the left, I hope.” Chop clack click. “How does she feel about you?”

Another wheezy sigh. “I think she’s disappointed that I’m not more, ah, sort of atavistic. She’s got some naïve, sentimental notions about Indians. I’m sure she liked me, though; she gave me many indications that she liked me.
But . . . then she left town.”
“She always leaves town, you dummy. That doesn’t mean anything. What about in bed? Does she like it in bed?”
Evel Knievel’s motorcycle could not have jumped over the pause that followed. Finally, Julian asked, “How did she like what in bed?”
“Like what? ” Chop!! Clack!! “What do you think?” “Well . . . er . . .”
“Shit O dear, Julian. Do you mean to tell me you spent three days together and you didn’t get it on?”
“Oh, we got it on. But you might say we didn’t get it all the way on.” “Whose fault was that?”
“I suppose it was mine. Yes, it definitely was my fault.”
“In a way I’m relieved it wasn’t hers. I’ve been worried about her psychological virginity. Only now I’m concerned about you. What do they do to you boys in those Ivy League schools, anyway? Strap you down and pump the Nature out of you? That’s what they do, all right.
They can even press the last drop of Nature out of a Mohawk buck. Why, send a shaman or a cannibal to Yale for e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 103
four years and all he’d be fit for would be a desk in the military-industrial complex and a seat in the third row at a Neil Simon comedy. Jesus H. M. S. Christ! If Harvard or Princeton could get hold of the Chink for a couple of se- mesters they’d turn him into a candidate for the Bow Tie Wing of the Hall of Wimps. Oogie boogie.”
“You needn’t stoop to reverse snobbism just because Ol’ Miss was the only

university in the nation that would take you in. If we Ivy Leaguers aren’t earthy enough to suit you hillbillies, at least we don’t go around indulging in racist terms such as ‘Chink.’ Next thing I know, you’ll be calling me ‘chief.’ ”
“ ‘Chink’ is the guy’s name, for Christ’s sake.”
“What guy?”
“Aw, he’s some old fart who lives in the hills out West.
Gives my ranch the creeps, and the willies, too. But though he be old and dirty, he’s alive, I’ll bet, clear down to his toes. They don’t have his juice in a jar in New Haven. That prissy alma mater of yours could pluck the hair off a werewolf. Better Sissy keep her virginity than lose it to the strains of ‘The Whiffenpoof Song.’ ”
“Sex isn’t everything, just because it keeps you in business. And speaking of your business, you’d better be concerned. Because that mysterious model of yours has got me too upset to paint.”
“You’ll paint, all right, sweetie-poo. You’ll paint because you’re under contract to paint. Moreover, you’ll paint better than you’ve ever painted before. Nothing like a little suffering to put some backbone into art. Has she got you smoking and drinking? Good! Creativity feeds on poisons. All great artists have been depraved. Look at me! As sure as Raoul Dufy is peeing over the side of Eternity’s sailboat, this little affaire is going to inspire the finest watercolors of your career. Now, tell that goddamned poodle of yours to quit whimpering and you get in there and paint!”
“That’s not the poodle.”
“Oh,” said the Countess. “Well shit O dear. Just hold 104 tomrobbins
on, you hear. Don’t go getting asthmatic. We can write her a letter, if you’d like. Send copies to Taos, LaConner, Pine Ridge, Pleasant Point, Cherokee and that other place. I’ll pick up some Ripple and come right over.”
The eyes of the sky’s potato have seldom looked down on such a frantic

epistolary collaboration as occurred that night.

28.
the chinck is right: life is essentially playful.
Of course, it plays a bit rough at times.
Maybe life is like a baby gorilla. It doesn’t know its own strength.
Life was mashing the big fat drops out of Julian Gitche and Sissy Hankshaw. They had chipmunk festivals inside their stomachs and the fillings in their teeth were picking up signals from sentimental radio. Life is forever pulling this number on men and women, and then acting surprised and innocent, as it it didn’t realize it was hurting anybody.
On the surface, to the untrained eye, Sissy was hitchhiking as well as she ever had. She had even developed some new wrinkles. Such as using both thumbs at once, addressing one appendage to the far lanes of traffic while causing the other to beckon wittily to the cars passing closest to roadside. She had also perfected a high bouncing roll to the left, comparable to the “American twist”
service in tennis. It was flashy but there was no real joy in it, no substance or spontaneity. It was what is known as a virtuoso performance. It lacked soul. You know. Show biz is teeming with performers like that, all of them with more tiles in their swimming pools than you or I have.
A sense of urgency had crept into her style. Whereas in e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 105
the past Sissy had kept up her astonishing pace out of sheer exhilaration at being unique and being free, she now kept going because she was afraid to stop. For when biological necessities did force her to stop, time and space, which she had heretofore held in abeyance (as if she were some clockworks personified), fell in on her in a gravita-tional rush. Time and space fell in on her like a set of encyclopedias falling off a missionary’s shelf onto a pygmy.
And time brought along its secretary, memory, and space brought its brat, loneliness.

In the past, she had been subjected to ridicule, pity, awe and lust. Now, she was being subjected to tenderness and need. It was better and worse. As do many strong people, she had fallen victim to the tyranny of the weak.
As for Julian, he took to swilling Scotch. In the mornings. Before he had even had his Mother of God Wheat Flakes (or was it his Joyce Carol Oats?) One night he went to Max’s Kansas City and created a minor ruckus by yelling, in a wheezy voice, “Jackson Pollock was a fraud!”
A sculptor, hardly making an effort, bloodied his nose; and a perverted biology student followed him home because he thought Julian had said Pollock was a frog. (In New York, my dears, there are all kinds.) He listened to Tchaikovsky and stopped combing his hair.
Sometimes one gets the idea that life thinks it’s still living in Paris in the thirties.

29.
julian gitche’s letter caught up with Sissy Hankshaw in Cherokee, North Carolina, on Christmas Eve. She picked it up at 11:00 a.m., just before the post office closed for the holiday. After reading it twice, she escorted it into a honky- tonk (where aghast drunks reacted to her thumbs 106
tomrobbins
as if they were the hellish little reindeer of some kind of anti-Santa Claus) and read it again. The Countess had advanced her four hundred dollars when she got to New York back in the summer and she had enough left to buy a bottle of wine. She chose red Ripple, for old times’ sake, and promptly spilled some on the letter. While a jukeboxed Bing Crosby crooned “I’m Dreaming of a White Christmas,” a postage-stamp Ike grinned his I-made-it-all-the-way-to-the-top- but-I-still-don’t-understand grin through a puddle of wine. Under the plastic mistletoe, pool balls kissed. Blue lights winked from a metallic silver tree. Vulgarity called, and was answered.
Halfway through the Ripple, Sissy got up to go to the toilet and went to the phone booth instead.
Julian, holding back wheezes with a herculean effort, told her that he loved her. She protested that he didn’t even know her. Abandoning all that he’d been taught at Yale, he replied that feeling was superior to knowledge.
“I love you,” Julian said.
“You’re a fool,” said Sissy.
“I’m offering love and you’re rejecting it. Maybe you are the fool.” Well!
A week after New Year’s, she hitched into Manhattan.
With the Countess, who despised the way men behaved and women smelled, as their sarcastic witness, Sissy and Julian went to the Little Church of the Positive

Thought and were married by a protégé of Dr. Norman Vincent Peale’s.
Thus ended for all practical purposes what the author knows to be one of the most remarkable and least understood careers in human history.
But a career, however unusual, is not a story. And Sissy’s story, dovetailing as it does with the stories of the Rubber Rose cowgirls and the clockworks Chink, and disclosing as it does the possible pancake beneath the sluggish syrup and slippery butter of life, is far from ended.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 107
C O W G I R L I N T E R L U D E ( B I N G ) Under an orchard tree, drooping with cherries, cowgirls lay in the shade. They fed each other fruit. Dark juice dribbled into dimples. Cherry meat stained smiles and nostrils.
Kathy was embroidering a rainbow on the back of Heather’s workshirt. Inspired, Linda rendered an all-red rainbow on Debbie’s bare waist, and Kym, dipping slightly below the belt, added the pot of gold. Cherry paint.
Fruit goo began to attract flies, so the cowgirls imitated their hobbled horses and brushed them away by flinging their hair. A cloud chugged by. If it was not gone by sunset, it would be painted, too.
The forewoman, Delores del Ruby, was away from the ranch on a peyote run. Big Red was acting forewoman, and she was permitting the hands a very extended break.
The goats in their charge were straying far and wide, and as for the birds, they could not be seen from the cherry tree.
Placing her New Testament back in her saddlebag, Mary asked, “Pardners, do you think this is honest, goof-ing off like this?”
“I don’t care if it’s honest if it’s fun,” said Big Red. “I don’t care if it’s fun if it’s real,” said Kym.

“I don’t even care if it’s real,” said Debbie. Not everyone knew what she meant.

30.
if you could buckle your Bugs Bunny wristwatch to a ray of light, your watch would continue ticking but its hands wouldn’t move. That’s because at the speed of light there is no time. Time is relative to velocity. At high 108
tomrobbins
speeds, time is literally stretched. Since light is the ultimate in velocity, at light- speed time is stretched to its absolute and becomes static. Albert Einstein figured that one out. There’s no need to hang around the clockworks and bug the Chink about it.
Assuming that our brains will get off their fat butts, for a change, and play cosmic ball with us, allowing us to fully comprehend no time, then we might try to picture (if
“picture” is the right word) what Einstein meant when he defined “space” as “love.”
Einstein knew a lot about space—he determined, for example, that beyond the expanding volume of the universe space ceases to exist, and so we have no space to contend with as well as no time—and he may have had some special insights into love, as well. The first of his two marriages was a mess, however. Einstein wed a girl with a physical defect.
It was some sort of crazy limp that plagued Mileva Marić, some eccentricity of the foot. A few days after the civil ceremony in Zurich, one of young Einstein’s friends confessed, “I should never have the courage to marry a woman unless she were absolutely sound.” Well, for all that fellow might have known, it could have been the daily contemplation of Mileva’s wild toes that led Einstein to perceive the wondrous workings of Nature in a way that no other scientist ever had.
But never mind. We know for a fact that it took more than a sardine of courage for the watercolorist Julian Gitche to marry the “unsound” Sissy Hankshaw. The union altered his life almost as drastically as it altered hers.

Good-by to dinner parties. Sissy was clumsy with sil-verware and, as previously noted, had a tendency to slosh the wine. Invitations were routinely refused, never extended. Julia Child was overtaken by dust. They gnawed Colonel Sanders drumsticks and Big Mac burgers in their apartment, alone. Julian began to complain of his stomach. Grease was giving him ulcers, he said. Sitting at the kitchen table, beneath the paper imitation Tiffany lampe v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 109
shade, he would peer into the hot slit of a taco and wonder who was dining that night at Elaine’s.
While her husband painted, Sissy would stare out the windows at traffic. Or she would leaf through the motor-ing magazines that she brought regularly at newsstands, although Julian, a nondriver, vowed he’d never own a car.
Her thumbs ached, and in order to relieve them, she took to imaginary hitchhiking, the game she’d played as a small child. She hitchhiked curtain- bottoms creeping on win-dowsills. She hitchhiked the black shadow thrown by the white piano. Cockroaches scurried when the bathroom light went on—she tried to flag them down. This return to girlhood beginnings amused her, kept her calm. Julian was sensitive enough to recognize its value to their relationship, although the peculiarity of it caused nervous coughs to punch the bags of his lungs.
She was a ratty housekeeper. She hadn’t the experience or the aptitude. So Julian, on top of his picture-making, his conferences with art dealers, collectors and advertising men, had to attend to domestic chores. When he washed dishes, Sissy, a bit embarrassed, would retire to the bedroom to chat with the birds. The birds and Sissy had real rapport. Was it an interest in “freedom of movement” that they had in commom?
One Sunday, the newlyweds went together to the Museum of the American Indian on One hundred fifty-fifth Street. It was Sissy’s idea. There was nothing displayed from the Siwash, not even a bead. On the way home, they quarreled.
At least once a week, Howard and Marie dropped in (Rupert and Carla had separated) to play Botticelli and discuss the international situation, which was desperate, as usual. Occasionally, one or the other of them, Howard or Marie, would catch Sissy alone (she was inclined to wander away from the group) and

try to kiss her and prowl in her clothes. It wasn’t right, but it made more sense to her than politics or Botticelli.
A certain amount of morbid gossip spread about the 110 tomrobbins
couple: the elegant and talented Mohawk, the lovely and deformed Yoni Yum/Dew Girl (revealed at last!). Sissy was immune, but the stories made Julian squirm. When questioned about his wife’s background, he would lie that the small amount of hitchhiking she had done had been part of a publicity stunt dreamed up by the Countess.
Later, he would feel guilty for denying her, and she took his guilt for discontent.
Nights in bed, and mornings, too, beneath blankets no Indian loomed, the strange tensions of their relationship dissolved in tenderness and passion. They caressed one another until their hides shone. They embraced until their 206 bones squeaked like mice. Their bed was a boat in a weird sea.
If space is love, Professor, then is love space? Or is love something we use to fill space? If time eats the doughnut, does love eat the hole?

31.
there was someone at the door. The buzzer was carrying on like a maraca with a crush on a June bug.
It must be the Countess.
As if the Gitches weren’t subjected to pressures enough, there was the bitching of the Countess.
No one recognized more lucidly than the Countess the heroism of Sissy’s attempt at normal womanhood; no one could list more completely than he the sacrifices Julian made for his marriage (The painter had gone so far as to get rid of his poodle). Still, the Countess couldn’t resist digging at them, mocking their motives. Perhaps he suffered the secret shame of those men who dam rivers and break horses. The Countess, after all, had initiated the marriage that had “tamed” Sissy Hankshaw—and all he e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 111
had to show for his meddling with freedom was the hollow prize of the marriage itself, and another successful advertising campaign: Julian’s watercolors were at least the rage that Sissy’s poses once had been.
It was the middle of September. The marriage was nine months old. The evening before, they had had such a spat that it took most of the night to patch things. On this morning they were enjoying a fragile, vulnerable happiness. They surely didn’t need the Countess’s cynical stick stirring things up.
The instant he crossed their threshold, however, it was apparent that the Countess hadn’t called merely to indulge himself. He was waving his cigarette holder like a brakeman’s lantern; his dentures were chasing his words the way Tom chased Jerry.
“Sissy, Sissy, blushing bride, you can desist from wearing paths in these oaken floors. The Countess has arrived with a job for you, and what a job . . .”
“A job for me? ”
“Don’t interrupt your elders, particularly if they’re royal. A job for you, yes. I

am once more about to make advertising history. And only you, the original Yoni Yum/Dew Girl, could possibly assist me. Julian, knock it off! Wipe that wounded rabbit look off your face. And if you emit so much as one wheeze, I’ll chop you right out of my totem pole. This assignment will in no way interfere with our watercolor campaign. It has eighteen months to run, as you know, and if you’re a good little In-jun I may renew your contract. No, this project isn’t for magazines at all. I’m going to film a commercial such as television has never seen.”
“But you haven’t used a TV spot in years,” protested Julian. “I thought you were through with the tube.”
“A countess is entitled to change her mind. Shit O dear, I’ve got to go back to TV. I’ve no choice anymore. Didn’t you read about it in the papers? Those bleeding-heart do-gooders in the government are out to ruin me! Listen to this.”
112
tomrobbins
From one of the many folds in his crumpled linen suit, the Countess removed a newspaper clipping and commenced to read:
washington (UPI)—The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said Wednesday female deodorant sprays are medically and hygienically worthless, and may cause such harmful reactions as blisters, burns and rashes.
It proposed a warning label on each can of spray to tell the consumer: “Caution: For external use only.
Spray at least eight inches from skin. Use sparingly and not more than once daily to avoid irritation. Do not use this product with a sanitary napkin. Do not apply to broken, irritated or itching skin. Persistent or unusual odor may indicate the presence of a condition for which a physician should be consulted. If a rash, irritation, unusual vaginal discharge or discomfort develops, discontinue use immediately and consult a physician.”
In addition to the warning label, the products would not be allowed to make

claims on the label for medical or hygienic value.
The agency said it acted because it has been receiving complaints from consumers, some of whom suffered more serious problems after the initial irritation or rash.
“Although FDA judges that the reported reactions are not sufficient to justify removal of these products from the market, they are considered sufficient to warrant the proposed mandatory label warnings,” it added.
“Shit O dear, that’s enough to make me asthmatic. The nerve of those twits. What do they know about female odor? None of those politicos sleeps with his wife. They all go to whores and whores know how to take care of themselves. They’re my best customers. I’ll bet Ralph e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 113
Nader is behind this. Why he’s probably got his kiddie corps of Ivy League law students out inspecting vaginas from coast to coast, looking for fresh blisters and unusual discharges. It’s an affront to a Christian nation. I’m the one who’s trying to clean things up, rid the human race of its most pagan stench. But do you think those dupes understand that? And after my sizable contribution to the President’s campaign fund! I’m going to bend ears in the White House about this. I’ll get action, too; you wait and see. They accepted my donation, so they’re aware they’d better serve my interests or I’ll buy some leadership that will. These swine are not the pearls I’ve dreamed of.
“But it’ll take time, precious time, to head off this FDA plot. The government moves slower than a candied turd.
So, meanwhile, to offset their monkey business, I plan to hit TV with a commercial that’ll spin eyeballs and win hearts by the millions. Don’t interrupt!
“Here’s my concept. You know about my ranch out West? It’s a beauty ranch. Oh, it’s got a few head of cattle for atmosphere and tax purposes. But it’s a beauty ranch, a place where unhappy women—divorcées and widows, mainly— can go to lose weight, remove wrinkles, change their hair styles and pretty themselves up for the next disappointment. You’ve heard of such places, surely. Only my ranch is different. It does some real good. My staff teaches its clients how to take care of their more intimate beauty problems, the problems swish salons don’t dare tackle, the problems other health spas ignore. You know the

ones I mean. Why, my ranch is named the Rubber Rose, after the Rubber Rose douche bag, my own invention, and bless its little red bladder, the most popular douche bag in the world.
“So get this. There’s a worthless marshy lake at one end of the ranch. It’s on the migratory flight path of the whooping cranes. The last flock of wild whooping cranes left in existence. Well, these cranes stop off at my little pond—Siwash Lake, it’s called—twice a year, autumn and spring, and spend a few days each time, resting up, eating, 114
tomrobbins
doing whatever whooping cranes do. I’ve never seen them, understand, but I hear they’re magnificent. Very big specimens—I mean, huge mothers—and white as snow, to coin a phrase, except for black tips on their wings and tail feathers, and bright red heads. Now, whooping cranes, in case you didn’t know it, are noted for their mating dance.
It’s just the wildest show in nature. It’s probably the reason why birdwatching used to be so popular with old maids and deacons. Picture these rare, beautiful, gigantic birds in full dance—leaping six feet off the mud, arching their backs, flapping their wings, strutting low to the ground. Dears, it’s overwhelming. And now picture those birds doing their sex dance on TV. Right there on the home screen, creation’s most elaborate sex ritual—yet clean and pure enough to suit the Pope. With lovely Sissy Hankshaw—pardon me, Sissy Gitche—in the foreground.
In a white gown, red hood attached, and big feathery sleeves trimmed in black. In a very subdued imitation of the female whooping crane, she dance/walks over to a large nest in which there sits a can of Yoni Yum. And a can of Dew. Off- camera, a string quartet is playing De-bussy. A sensuous voice is reading a few poetic lines about courtship and love. Are you starting to get it? Doesn’t it make the hair on your neck stand up and applaud? My very goodness gracious!”
Julian was impressed, and Sissy, although she sensed that the big sleeves on her costume would be designed to conceal her hands, was pleased. Scratching his jaw-stubble with his cigarette holder, the Countess went on.
“Grandiose, lyrical, erotic and Girl Scout-oriented; you can’t top it. Needless to say, however, it isn’t going to be easy. Say, do you happen to have any Ripple

on ice? I’ve hired a crew of experts from Walt Disney Studios, the best wildlife cinematographers around. No Ripple; a pity. Forget it; Scotch won’t do. Ugh! Didn’t know I spoke Indian, did you, Julian?
“Now, I realize that you two are wallowing in a quag-mire of marital bliss, and I hate to pry you apart even for a e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 115
few weeks. But the deal is, the Disney boys will be heading for Dakota any day now to start setting up; these whooping cranes don’t like human beings even a tiny bit—probably have a keen sense of smell, poor birds—
and the camera crew has to build blinds and disguise its equipment; this is very tricky business. Well, I want Sissy out there within a week. She must meet the crew and fa-miliarize herself with the unusual requirements of the job.
The cranes show up at the lake anywhere from late September to late October. You never know from one year to the next, and we’ve got to be ready, have everything down pat when they do arrive. Got it?
“Also, Sissy sugar, you can do me a personal favor out there. As if I weren’t already as busy as a fiddler’s bitch, I’ve got to go down to Washington, D.C., and sic my boys in the White House on those FDA yokels. I won’t get out to Dakota until the last minute. So I’d like you to look the Rubber Rose over real carefully, if you would, and report on what’s happening there. I’ve been having some trouble on that ranch and I could use inside information.”
Julian’s eyes narrowed. “What kind of trouble?” he asked.
“It’s a long story,” said the Countess, his dentures thrashing in his oral cavity like two hard-shelled marine animals attempting to mate in a pocket of pink coral. “It’s a long story and no decent drink to wet it with. Well, I’ll try to make it snappy. Sometime ago a cute little hellion, a teen-ager from Kansas City who was dying to be a cowgirl, found out about the Rubber Rose and soft-talked me into giving her a job there. She called herself Bonanza Jellybean, and that should have tipped me off. But like a fool, I hired her anyway and put her to doing odd jobs around the house and stables, sort of a flunky for Miss Adrian. Miss Adrian is my ranch manager; she used to run the Minnie Mouse Beauty Village at Opa Locka, Florida, and really knows the business. Well, it wasn’t long before this teenybopper was spending more time in the saddle 116

tomrobbins
than she was in the kitchen; she was out riding with the cowhands, going on all the pack trips and taking on more and more responsibility for herself. Julian, it’s certainly more pleasant visiting you without that poodle mistaking my left leg for Lassie. Do you hear from old Butty regularly? Good old dog!
“So. Early spring, just before the season opened, Jellybean and a couple of the younger beauticians—Christ knows how she won them over—barricaded themselves in the ranch house, holding Miss Adrian hostage, and started telephoning demands to me in New York. They demanded that I fire all the male ranch hands and replace them with females. Shit O dear! Jelly claimed that my company had been exploiting women for years. She charged that I’ve made a fortune off women and said it was time I started doing something for them in return—as if my whole adult life hasn’t been devoted to improving the female sex. Talk about ingratitude! Gracious! She said if the Rubber Rose was a ranch for women, then it should be operated exclusively by women; women shouldn’t be relegated to menial and effete cosmetic tasks while men got to perform all the exciting outdoor work. These were her actual words: ‘I’m not a hairdresser or a fucking scullery maid; I’m a cowgirl. And there’s gonna be cowgirls riding this range or there ain’t gonna be any range to ride.’ Now where does a young woman from our God-fearing Midwest learn talk like that? Dr. Spock, I ask you.”
Julian pounded his coffeetable edition of Sir Kenneth Clark’s Civilisation with a soft brown fist. “You didn’t let her get away with it, did you? By golly, I’d’ve . . .”
“It would have been simple to notify the Dakota state patrol and have them evict the little snots from the spread.
Actually, however, Jelly’s idea, although selfishly motivated, was rather sound. You see, most of the guests at the Rubber Rose are pretty well fixed, from insurance settle-ments, alimony and so forth. A shocking lot of my cowpokes proved to be fortune hunters, out to marry those e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 117
dumb old broads for their money. And even the ranch hands who were honest family men created a problem because during the moonlight trail rides, chuck

wagon campouts and other organized recreation the guests were always falling in love with them, mooning over them, following them around, even fighting over them. Dears, the turnover on that ranch was tremendous. It was a mess.
But an all-girl staff would eliminate those hassles. And it would eliminate rude cowboys hanging around sniggering outside the building where guests were receiving super-douche, love oil and nipple-wax training; guests and staff alike found that embarrassing. What’s more, it would get the dykes of America off my delicate back once and forever. That wasn’t the first time I’d been maligned by them. There’re a lot of malcontents in this society of ours, if you hadn’t noticed. Yes, the more I considered the idea, the better I liked it. In the end, I told Jelly to go ahead and hire me a gang of cowgirls, if she could find any, and that if they handled the work okay I would pay them men’s wages and back them all the way. And that’s how I’ve come to be proprietor of the largest all-girl ranch in the West. Come a cow cow hickey, come a yippee ki yea.”
“How has it worked out?” asked Julian.
“In all truthfulness, I don’t know. Communications from the ranch have been few and far between. I’ve called Miss Adrian several times, but the phone’s out of order more often than not—it’s a rather remote region—and when I’ve reached her she’s been evasive. I think the cowgirls have her intimidated. On top of that, there’s that crazed hermit sitting up on his perch watching the place all the time. The old coot is probably working a Chinese hoodoo voodoo on the whole operation. Gives me the shivers. You can understand why I’m curious. And why I’d like Sissy to check out the scene. What do you say?”
Julian answered for them. “Let us have tonight to talk it over,” he said. “We’ll let you know in the morning.”
The Countess wasn’t used to being put off, but he agreed. With his monocle casting a harsh glint on the 118
tomrobbins
wallpaper, and his good-by mangled by the emery of animated teeth, he departed.
Discussion between the newlyweds erupted almost at once—and for a while it went smoothly enough. They were quick to agree that the offer had merit.

They’d been breathing the same air for nine months, night and day, and a short vacation would refresh them both. Sissy’s boredom with her new, inactive life was the principal source of their friction. A modeling assignment, especially one as interesting and lucrative as this one, could be a tonic for her. And while she was away, Julian could have some people over for poulet sauté aux herbes de Provence (his speciality), and perhaps join a group at Elaine’s. By all means, a short separation could have salubrious effects.
It was when Sissy announced her intentions to hitchhike to Dakota that conversation took on a tin edge, and Julian foamed and wheezed. He couldn’t understand it; he couldn’t comprehend it; he couldn’t fathom it; he couldn’t (choose your synonym). It frightened him, saddened him, drove him to the Scotch bottle and even to the medicine cabinet to fondle his nail scissors theatrically (Having no facial hair, Indians seldom own razors). He unleashed barrage after barrage of his heaviest asthmatic artillery.
But Sissy stood her ground, and next morning when the Countess phoned, Julian told him:
“She’s delighted to be of service. She’ll leave on Sunday.
She’s starting early because (sob) she insists on hitchhiking. God, just when I thought she was getting over it.
Those thumbs of hers, those unfortunate redundancies; they are of no significance, yet how they complicate our lives.”
In the bedroom, sorting out her old jumpsuits, Sissy overheard the complaint. Slowly, she turned her hands in the mirror, like stems, like daggers, like bottles missing labels.
They seemed the best part of her body, her thumbs. The substantial, uncomplicated part. No orifices riddled them; no hair hung from them; they secreted nothing and hare v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 119
bored no senses to satisfy. They contained no slimy en-trails; ganglia did not adorn them; they produced nothing that might be compared with earwax, tooth decay or toe jam. They were but the sweet, the unadulterated, the thick pulp of her own life, there in smooth volume and closed form, complete.

Trembling while she did so, and blushing afterward, she kissed them. She blessed her life.
These thumbs. They had created a reality for her when only somebody else’s crippled notion of reality, some socially sanctioned parody of reality, was to be her lot. And now they were about to transport her to the Rubber Rose Ranch.
Out where tall birds waded in a lake named for her Siwash kin.
Out where Smokey the Bear lay down his shovel to romp with more playful beasts.
Out where starlight had no enemies and the badland wind no friends. Out where the boogie stopped and the woogie began.
PA RT
 
III
Though from time immemorial there were girls upon the ranches who could ride wild horses, they did it under protest and did not pride themselves upon it. Even today, in the great cattle countries of the south, no woman rides except upon a journey, and I do not think that even in the United States that many women take part in steer-roping or rounding up the stock.
—Sir Charles Walter Simpson

32.
the brown paper bag is the only thing civilized man has produced that does not seem out of place in nature.
Crumpled into a wad of wrinkles, like the fossilized brain of a dryad; looking weathered; seeming slow and rough enough to be a product of natural evolution; its brownness the low-key brown of potato skin and peanut shell—dirty but pure; its kinship to tree (to knot and nest) unobscured by the cruel crush of industry; absorbing the elements like any other organic entity; blending with rock and vegetation as if it were a burrowing owl’s doormat or a jack rabbit’s underwear, a No. 8 Kraft paper bag lay dis-carded in the hills of Dakota—and appeared to live where it lay.
Now empty and leathery-wrinkled, the bag had been twice full. Once, long ago, it had borne a package of buns and a jar of mustard to a kitchenette rendezvous with fried hamburger. More recently, the bag had held love letters.
As a hole in an oak hides a squirrel’s family jewels, the bag had hidden love letters in the bottom of a bunkhouse trunk. Then, one day after work, the button- nosed little cowgirl to whom the letters were addressed gathered bag 124
tomrobbins
and contents under her arm, slipped out to the corral, past ranch hands pitching horseshoes and ranch hands flying Tibetan kites, saddled up and trotted into the hills. A mile or more from the bunkhouse, she dismounted and built a small fire. She fed the fire letters, one by one, the way her boy friend had once fed her french fries.
As words such as sweetheart and honey britches and forever and always burned away, the cowgirl squirted a few tears. Her eyes were so misty she forgot to burn the bag.
Back at the bunkhouse, in the twilight, her companions pretended they didn’t know where she had gone or why.
Big Red offered her a piece of homemade fudge and showed no surprise when

she refused it. Kym, before retiring, smeared a fast kiss across her lips—very casual, as if she were brushing off a piece of lint. And Jelly, who’d been trying to plunk a carefree song on a hard-timed old Gibson, looked up at her and said, “You know, podner, you can tune a guitar but you can’t tuna fish.”
She was one of them now. God but it’s good to be a cowgirl!

33.
the outhouse radio was playing “The Starving Armenians Polka.” Rain, a sudden downpour, a regular Dakota summer cloudburst, had trapped Bonanza Jellybean and Delores del Ruby in the privy. First Delores and then Jelly finished her business and pantsed up, but still they sat there.
“Well, I’m not scared of a little rain,” announced Jelly.
“Me neither,” said Delores, who would never admit to being afraid of anything.
But neither made a move to leave. Instead, they stared e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 125
out the door at the staircase of water that so resembled the one on which mermaids greet drowned sailors (“Would you like to come up to my room?” asks a mermaid, not much older than a cowgirl. “You bet, you bet,” glubs the excited sailor, silently thanking his hometown recruiting officer that he hadn’t had the misfortune to die on dry land). The stairs of water hung there, in what used to be air, as if waiting for a midget submarine to slide down its banister.
“Might as well brave it,” said Jelly, moving to the door. She was the ranch boss and had to set an example.
“Right,” agreed Delores, the forewoman. “I don’t know about you but I’m sure not sweet enough to melt.”
She flicked her whip at a sweat bee that had also taken refuge in the privy. (Actually, she had been trying to wound not the bee but the photograph of Dale Evans upon which it had lit.)
A meeting had been called in the bunkhouse that Saturday morning, a meeting that all cowgirls except those watching the birds were expected to attend, and over which Jelly and Delores had to preside. If the chief cowgirls hadn’t stopped off, independently, to unburden their bowels (a habit that should be practiced by all presiding officers before they take the floor) and gotten trapped by a cloudburst, the meeting would now be underway. As Rubber Rose meetings

went, this one was not likely to be unusual. Mary would complain that some of the cowgirls had been sleeping two to a bunk again, in violation of the agreement that “crimes against nature” were to be confined to the hayloft. Debbie would say that she didn’t care who lay with whom or where or how, but that the moan-ers, groaners and screamers ought to turn down their volume when others were trying to sleep or meditate (here and there a blush). Big Red would proffer an unsolicited testimonial as to the quality and quantity of Rubber Rose cuisine, a testimony in which each boiled potato, every dab of gravy, was described as smaller and less appetizing than the one before. And several of the cowgirls would 126
tomrobbins
voice their anxieties about the possible consequences of riding herd on the birds. But Jelly would pacify everyone, as usual, and by meeting’s end there would be general smiling, hugging and expressions of solidarity. It promised to be a meeting with a familiar ring, but it had been called and therefore must be held. Jelly and Delores hadn’t the right to delay it further just because it was raining Coke bottles and bananas. Let them take their soaking.
Bracing themselves for a tall drink of water, straight, no chaser, they were poised in the shithouse doorway when all at once they saw a barefoot cowgirl—Debbie it was—
run across the yard in her karate robe, jump on the Exer-cycle that was rusting in the weeds and begin pumping the pedals furiously in the yammering rain. “My sacred crocodile!” exclaimed Delores. “She’s flipped.”
But, ho, in a minute others followed Debbie, everyone of them, in fact; the entire bunkhouse load of them, some thirty young cowgirls, squealing, giggling, naked or near naked, all full of dimples and hormones. They slid and rolled on the wet grass, pushed each other into the mud that was forming by the corral fence, chased one another in and out of the thick folds of rain draperies, stamped their cute feet in puddles and did bellyflops into the overflowing horse trough. The downpour became a crystal chandelier, they its flickering candleflames.
Boss rancher and forewoman eyed each other in astonishment. The hands called to them. Jelly felt minnows flash in her bloodstream. She undressed quickly. More reluctantly, Delores stripped down to her viperskin under-things. Together

they dashed into the warm rain.
The cowgirls frolicked until, as suddenly as it had come, the rain went away. Play ceased. The sun placed its horns in their dripping curls. They were panting like puppies as they leaned against one another or picked clods of mud from one another’s hair.
“I move that the meeting be adjourned,” panted Elaine.
Debbie seconded the motion, and tacked on a Zen e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e
b l u e s 127
proverb: “At the end of the endless game, there is friendship.”
“What the heck did she mean by that!” asked Heather, who made use of the privy while Jelly gathered up her clothes.
Jelly studied the tired and sopping cowgirls walking arm and arm back to the bunkhouse. “Just that in Heaven all business is conducted this way,” she explained.

34.
while bonanza jellybean was cross-state in Fargo, closing the goat cheese deal, she stopped at a rummage sale and picked up a gang of old dresses and hats. The cowgirls were trying them on in front of the bunkhouse mirror. Kym mugged in a floppy pink chapeau that looked like a cross between a strawberry chiffon pie and a blood-hound. Using up her mirror time, Jody palpitated in a frilly green kimono. Delores inquired sullenly if there was anything in black. Elaine and Linda . . .
Wait. Wait a moment, please. Even though we agree that time is relative; that most subjective notions of it are inaccurate just as most objective expressions of it are arbitrary; even though we may seek to extirpate ourselves from the terrible flow of it (to the extent of ignoring an author’s plea to “wait a moment, please,” for a moment, after all, is a little lump of time); even though we pledge allegiance to the “here and now,” or view time as an empty box to fill with our genius, or restructure our concepts of it to conform with those wild tickings at the clockworks; even so, we have come to expect, for better or worse, some sort of chronological order in the books we read, for it is the function of literature to provide what life does not. In light of that, then, your author is calling 128
tomrobbins
“time out” to inform you that those events described in the opening chapters of Part III, as well as most of those reported in the various Cowgirl Interludes of Parts I and II, occurred after Sissy Hankshaw Gitche had come to the Rubber Rose and gone again.
Conditions at the ranch were a bit different when Sissy arrived for her modeling assignment back in September 1973. Ostensibly, Miss Adrian was still in charge then, the Rubber Rose still functioned as a beauty ranch and the number of cowgirls there was no more than fifteen. Drastic changes had been made, to be sure, in the Countess’s original plans for the spread, but it was not the same configuration of appetites nor had it the same mood or significance as the place about which the author has been sporadically writing.
If he has confused you, the author apologizes. He swears to keep events in

proper historical sequence from now on. He does not, however, disavow the impulses that led to his presentation of cowgirl scenes out of chronological order, not does he, in repentance, embrace the notion that literature should mirror reality (as the bunkhouse looking glass mirrored young cowgirls in old clothing, whatever the continuity). A book no more contains reality than a clock contains time. A book may measure so-called reality as a clock measures so- called time; a book may create an illusion of reality as a clock creates an illusion of time; a book may be real, just as a clock is real (both more real, perhaps, than those ideas to which they allude); but let’s not kid ourselves—all a clock contains is wheels and springs and all a book contains is sentences.
Happily, your author is not under contract to any of the muses who supply the reputable writers, and thus he has access to a considerable variety of sentences to spread and stretch from margin to margin as he relates the stories of our Thumbelina, of the ranch a douche bag built and—
O my children, cock your ears to this!—of the clockworks and its Chink. For example:
This sentence is made of lead (and a sentence of lead e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 129
gives a reader an entirely different sensation from one made of magnesium). This sentence is made of yak wool.
This sentence is made of sunlight and plums. This sentence is made of ice. This sentence is made from the blood of the poet. This sentence was made in Japan. This sentence glows in the dark. This sentence was born with a caul. This sentence has a crush on Norman Mailer. This sentence is a wino and doesn’t care who knows it. Like many italic sentences, this one has Mafia connections. This sentence is a double Cancer with Pisces rising. This sentence lost its mind searching for the perfect paragraph.
This sentence refuses to be diagramed. This sentence ran off with an adverb clause. This sentence is 100 percent organic: it will not retain a facsimile of freshness like those sentences of Homer, Shakespeare, Goethe et al., which are loaded with preservatives. This sentence leaks. This sentence doesn’t look Jewish . . . This sentence has accepted Jesus Christ as its personal savior. This sentence once spit in a book reviewer’s eye. This sentence can do the funky

chicken. This sentence has seen too much and forgotten too little. This sentence is called “Speedoo” but its real name is Mr. Earl. This sentence may be pregnant, it missed its period. This sentence suffered a split infinitive—and survived. If this sentence had been a snake you’d have bitten it. This sentence went to jail with Clif-ford Irving. This sentence went to Woodstock. And this little sentence went wee wee wee all the way home. This sentence is proud to be a part of the team here at Even Cowgirls Get the Blues. This sentence is rather confounded by the whole damn thing.
130
tomrobbins

35.
the trouble with seagulls is that they don’t know whether they are cats or dogs. Their cry is exactly midway between a bark and a meow.
No such ambivalences exist in the Dakotas. The Dakota sky is all of one piece; the Dakota wind is nothing if not direct; the Dakota dust suffers no identity crisis; the whooping cranes that sojourn twice each year in the Dakotas (where gulls don’t dare to fly) know precisely what they are—their inimitable whoops attest to that.
As one might expect of such singular, straightforward, no-nonsense territory, the topography of the Dakotas is almost uniformly flat. Vast vistas of arid grasslands, open and unmodulated, thirsty and exposed, as level and smooth as a child’s back before the first slouches and pim-ples set in, stretch from horizon to horizon like the most lonesome old chord on God’s harmonica. Neither from danger nor boredom is there a place to hide. No Pan ever chased a tittering nymph across these solitary plains.
At the western edge of the Dakotas, however, the monotony of the landscape, now gradually tilting toward the Rockies, is interrupted by a topographical turmoil so harsh and wild that humans, with a sense of morality that must amuse amoral Nature, have seen fit to call it the Bad lands. The Ziegfeld Follies of erosion, the badlands flaunt their geological naughtiness in tall, towerlike buttes —heaping layer after layer of tormented rock and soil toward the sky—and sculptured canyons so deep and chaotic they can break a devil’s heart.
(In writing about the Dakotas, it is easy to speak of gods and devils, just as in writing about spiritual matters, it is wise to ignore them.)
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 131
Between the forlorn prairie pancake and the eerie badlands ruins, there lies a narrow band of humpy hills, green and pastoral. Less than two miles wide in places, this band seems gentle and friendly in comparison to the physio-graphic

excesses on either side of it. Small lakes glimmer in its hollows, and groves of trees are fairly common. To be sure, it collects a full share of summer scorching and winter blizzards; the near-constant Dakota wind extends it no special privileges; thunderstorms as righteously aloof as a B-52
pilot over an orphanage bomb it heavily with raindrops and hail; tornadoes have its number in their little black books and sometimes call. Nevertheless, if it is not quite an oasis, the ribbon of rises is definitely Dakota’s sweeter streak. The hills are carpeted with midlength prairie grass.
Cows have a tooth for this grass, as the buffalo did before them, and because the soil here is rich in lime, it provides the calcium that grazing animals need in their forage. Thus, the Dakota hills are partitioned into cattle ranches.
Small by local standards, the Rubber Rose takes up 160
acres of the green hill country, and, said a traveling Texan who saw it once, “Ah think A’ll wrap this heah place up in a napkin and take it home.” It also is one of the more isolated ranches: thirty miles from the closest town, sixteen miles from the house next door. At one time, it was part—
nearly all—of the Siwash Indian reservation.
The ranch’s buildings are clustered at its extreme western end, the badlands end, at the base of a butte higher, broader and longer than any in its vicinity. In fact, it is one of the most outrageous ridges in the entire badlands, and all the more conspicuous because of its position on the eastern perimeter of the badlands proper, a kind of last fling, as it were. Shaped like an unfrosted wedding cake from which misogamists had taken several cynical bites; no, shaped more like a ship that has been heavily shelled and has broken away from a convoy (its fellow buttes) to flounder against the surf of low green hills, the superbutte mellows into patches of grass and bushes here and there, but for the most part it is a barren monolith too rugged 132
tomrobbins
and steep for an ordinary human to climb. This mountain is known as Siwash Ridge. If it is a ship, it carries a cargo of limestone and phantoms. If it is a ship, it flies the flag of the forbidden. If it is a ship, the Chink is its captain, for he lives on its flying bridge in solitude.

Siwash Lake is at the opposite, or eastern, end of the ranch, a hazel eye reading and rereading Page One of the prairie.
And somewhere on that prairie, narrowing the miles between her and the Rubber Rose, her thumbs a match for the vastness surrounding her, Sissy Hankshaw Gitche was riffling traffic. A piece of her, perhaps the biggest piece, was flooded with ecstasy at being free, careening across the continent again, doing this crazy and apparently meaningless thing that, even after a nine-month layoff, she did better than anyone alive; but another piece of her missed Julian, ached for the attentions he lavished on her body and mind. And in her ambivalence, she, who was once as unwavering as the whooping crane, was now more like the gull.

36.
she entered mottburg in a Chevy pickup with a loose fender. It rattled worse than the Countess’s dentures. In contrast, the cattleman at the wheel made no noise at all. He wore grim lips and a far-away squint, both mute. Dakota men are like that.
Deposited at a feed store, she aimed her long strides immediately for the other end of town. It wasn’t far. At the outskirts, she stopped to speak to an elderly woman who sat nodding in a wicker chair in front of a little mom-and-pop gas station and general store. The old woman held Indian summer in her lap like a cat.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 133
“Excuse me, ma’am. Could you direct me to a ranch that’s called the Rubber
Rose? Mottburg is supposed to be the nearest town.”
Her eyes half-closed like a lizard’s, the woman raised her chin without raising her lids. “Are they real?” she asked in a voice that was surprisingly perky.
“You mean my thumbs? Yes, they’re very, very real.”
“Oh, well, excuse me then, honey, I didn’t mean to get personal. Since you’re asking about that Rubber Rose Ranch I thought maybe you was part of that moving picture show they’re making out there. I figured maybe they was props, make-up, you know. Are you going to be in that moving picture? What’s it about, anyway?”
Sissy started to inform the lady that the cinematographers she obviously had seen heading for the Rubber Rose were there to film the whooping cranes, but something—some protective instinct, perhaps—stopped her short. For some reason, she wasn’t sure that she should mention the cranes.
The plainswoman noticed Sissy’s hesitation. “Aw, it don’t matter,” she said. “It’ll probably never come to Mottburg, anyway. ’Specially if it’s one of them

brand X
naked pictures. All the show here ever shows anymore are bear-poop-in-the-trail movies put out by the Mormon Church. And then every Christmas they run The Sound of Music again. Lord, I’ve seen that picture four times. If they try to drag me to it this year I’m going to tell ’em my eyes are too weak. I hate to fib, but enough’s enough, don’t you think? Now, if they was to bring in a Bette Davis picture . . . That’s my meat. Do you like Bette Davis?”
Sissy smiled. “I don’t recall anything I’ve seen her in, but I hear she’s a marvelous actress.” Sissy didn’t know if she liked Bette Davis or not, but she liked the old woman.
“Well, I’ve seen her many a time, and Joan Crawford, too. I had plans to be a sophisticated lady like them once, but I got stuck out here, got stuck and never got away. I managed the Mottburg Grange for thirty years. They re-134
tomrobbins
tired me a while back. Figured I was senile. They reckon old Granny Schreiber is out of it now, but I know what’s going on, every inch of the way.”
Sissy set her rucksack down. “Say, Miss Schrieber . . .”
“Mrs. Schreiber. How else would a woman get stuck in a place like this if it wasn’t for a man? Lord!”
“Mrs. Schrieber, then, I’m wondering if you know anything about the Siwash Indians. Aren’t they a tribe in these parts?”
“Yes and no. The Siwash? Yes and no. Honey, I’m sorry if I’m staring. I know it’s rude; it’s just that you’re an uncommon sight.”
“That’s all right, Mrs. Schreiber. I’m used to being stared at. Why, I bet somebody as sophisticated as Bette Davis would stare at my thumbs. Now about the Siwash?”
“Yes, the Siwash. They wasn’t from around here originally. The Siwash was a small tribe that got chased off the Pacific Coast by their enemies. They were said to be working a lot of bad medicine and the other tribes hated

’em. Well, they migrated all the way to Dakota and the Dakota Sioux took ’em in and looked after them; gave ’em a parcel of their own land. Later, after the reservations were established, the Sioux talked the Congress into giving the Siwash two hundred acres for their own little reservation. During the war, World War Two I reckon it was, there’s been so dang many I can hardly keep ’em straight, what was left of the Siwash moved to the cities to take jobs. They let Congress sell off their reservation land to white ranchers. All but Siwash Ridge, that is. They claimed that that old butte—you can see it from here if the dust ain’t up and you look hard enough—they claimed it was holy and they was going to hold on to it forever. So that ridge is still Siwash territory. But there’s no Siwash left around here. Unless you count that old coot that lives up on the butte.”
“You mean the man they call the Chink? Is he an Indian? I assumed he was Chinese.”
The wrinkled woman rocked her body, parrot-style, in e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 135
the sun. “Maybe he’s a Chinaman and maybe he ain’t.
What I know is, he’s got a paper from the Siwash saying he’s their number one medicine man, and giving him permission to live on their sacred mountain.” She rocked.
“Maybe he’s a Chinaman. Maybe he’s something else.
Folks here where he does his trading don’t rightly know what he is. They think he’s half-animal, some kind of spook.” She stopped rocking. “But he’s always got a wink and a word of flapdoodle for old Granny Schreiber, and that’s more’n any the old geezers in Mottburg have got.
Lord, I’d go to the Saturday night dance with him any time. Granny Schreiber can still polka, don’t you know.”
Sissy laughed and picked up her rucksack. “I’m sure you’re a better dancer than I,” she said. “It’s been really fine talking with you, Mrs. Schreiber. Could you tell me how to get to the Rubber Rose?”
“Follow the main highway on out of town for a good nine or ten mile. You’ll see

a bitty dirt road turn off to the right. Look sharp. There ain’t any sign, but there’s a pile of rocks that’s been whitewashed. You follow that road until the land starts getting hilly. Then there’s another road branches off, not much wider ’n a path. There’s a sign on that one. You haven’t told me whether you’re going to be in that moving picture, or going to look for the Chink like them other young fools, or whether you going to work on the ranch. It’s none of my business. But I know you’re not going for a beauty treatment; you’re too pretty for that. Unless there’s something they can do for your thumbs . . .”
Sissy waved as she walked away. “There’s nothing I want done for my thumbs, Mrs. Schreiber. Thanks a lot for your help. I’ll see if there’s a part in the movie for you.”
“Do that. Do that,” said the old woman. She cackled.
Then she reached out lazily, as if to scratch Indian summer behind its ears.
136
tomrobbins

37.
sissy found the dir t road. She made little puffs of dust as she walked. A rattler warmed its chill blood on a rock. There was a feeling of yippee and wahoo in the air.
In the distance, Siwash Ridge tipped its hat—but it didn’t say howdy.
From the supposed direction of the ranch there approached a VW Microbus. It was painted with mandalas, lamaistic dorjes and symbols representing “the clear light of the void”—quite an adornment for the vehicular flower of German industry.
When the Microbus drew alongside Sissy it stopped. It bore two men and a woman. They were approximately twenty-four years old and had intense expressions. The female, who sat in the middle, spoke. “Are you a pilgrim?” she asked.
“No, I’m more of an Indian,” answered Sissy, who had missed a good many Thanksgiving dinners.
The trio didn’t smile. “She means are you going to see the Chink?” explained the driver.
“Oh, I may and I may not,” said Sissy. “But seeing him is not my main objective out here.”
“That’s good,” said the driver. “Because he won’t see you. We came all the way from Minneapolis to see him and the crazy bastard tried to stone us to death.”
“Oh, Nick, you’re exaggerating,” said the female. “He didn’t try to kill us. But he did throw rocks at us to chase us away. Wouldn’t let us within forty yards of him.”
“Just look at Charlie’s arm,” said the driver to the woman. Then, to Sissy, “The old goat caused Charlie to fall down. He’s got a bruise the size of an orange. Lucky e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 137

he didn’t break his neck.” On the far side of the bus, Charlie was holding his shoulder, brooding.
With a long skinny finger—all the better for probing the more narrow crannies of the cosmos—the woman pushed her rimless glasses up on her nose. “I told you we should have chanted before we started up the butte. We weren’t centered-in enough.”
“Balls!” exclaimed the driver. “We’re the third group of pilgrims he’s chased away this month. A guy from Chicago, a truly mystical person, got as far as the entrance to the cave last spring only to have the Chink crack him over the head with a stick. The Dalai Lama himself couldn’t get an audience with that maniac. He’s gone bananas up on that ridge.”
“Pardon me,” said Sissy, “but exactly why do you ‘pilgrims’ want to see the Chink?”
“Why does any pilgrim journey to see any saint? Why does any novice seek out a guru or a master? For instruction. We wished to be instructed.
“And if he had been receptive, we wanted to invite him to lead a seminar at our community. The Missouri River Buddhist Center.”
“Yeah,” said the driver, “but I no longer believe that guy’s a master. He’s just a dirty, uptight old mountain-man. Why, he pulled out his pecker and shook it at Bar-bara. I’d stay away from there if I were you, lady. Say, you aren’t going to the butte in hopes of any kind of faith healing, are you?”
Sissy had to smile. “Certainly not,” she said crisply. “I’m in perfect health.”
She walked on down the road, swinging her thumbs, leaving the pilgrims to argue about whether or not the Chink’s rock-shower and pecker-wag actually had been intended as spiritual messages.
138

tomrobbins

38.
if little else, the brain is an educational toy. While it may be a frustrating plaything—one whose finer points recede just when you think you are mastering them—it is nonetheless perpetually fascinating, frequently surprising, occasionally rewarding, and it comes already assembled; you don’t have to put it together on Christmas morning.
The problem with possessing such an engaging toy is that other people want to play with it, too. Sometimes they’d rather play with yours than theirs. Or they object if you play with yours in a different manner from the way they play with theirs. The result is, a few games out of a toy department of possibilities are universally and endlessly repeated. If you don’t play some people’s games, they say that you have “lost your marbles,” not recogniz-ing that, while Chinese checkers is indeed a fine pastime, a person may also play dominoes, chess, strip poker, tiddly-winks, drop-the-soap or Russian roulette with his brain.
One brain game that is widely, if poorly, played is a gimmick called “rational thought.” Although his ancestors had no knowledge of this game, and probably wouldn’t have played it if they had, Julian Gitche was fond of it. He tried to teach it to his wife, whose thumbs-first approach to life he found disturbingly irrational and frivolous (Long live the second phalanx!). Sissy gave it a whirl. She was eager for diversions in the Tenth Street apartment—and having survived nine months of matrimony, how could she feel any terror at “rational thought”? She learned the rudi-ments of logic and, with Julian’s encouragement, decided to apply them to her trip to the Rubber Rose.
Thus, when, nearing her destination, she sat to rest on a hunk of petrified log (all multicolored and looking like a e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 139
packaged loaf of prehistoric Wonder Bread), instead of letting her mind scat lightly over the pleasures and possibilities of the hitchhike, savoring its unarticulated intona-tions, rhythms and spatial tensions, she reminded herself of her pragmatic purposes and attempted to outline them, as any golden Greek might have done.
(1) She would pose for the Countess’s hired cameras, modeling to the best of her

ability.
(2) Mingling with cowgirls, staff and guests, she would attempt to assess the prevailing situation at the ranch.
(3) She would depart from the Rubber Rose as quickly as she might.
There! The primary aims. Now, she would break them down into (1a), (1b) etc. Logic was kind of fun, at that.
Alas, the brain is a toy that plays games of its own. Its very most favorite is the onething-leads-to-another game. You know it. It goes like this: when Sissy thought about outline form, that led her to think of being taught outline form by Julian, which led her to think of Julian himself, which led her to think of Julian loving her, which led her to think of love. One thing leads to another. Eyes closed tight inside the pale blue beehive of Dakota sky, waves of grasses whispering her name, meadowlarks squandering their songs on her, she began to squirm on the warm stone. She unzipped her jumpsuit at the crotch, and, as if looking up Eros in the Yellow Pages, let her fingers do the walking.
For you dears who have abused yourselves nowhere but in bed or the john at school, let Sissy tell you it can’t be beat in the middle of an empty prairie—an ocean of sunlit grassheads pushing the sky away in every direction, while darting breezes weave the perfumed kisses of the earth. Unbeknownst to Sissy, she was following in the fin-gersteps of quite a number of little ladies who rode that range. Even cowgirls get the blues.
Unfortunately, Sissy had turned but a few pages when she was interrupted by a Cadillac limousine that popped out of a prairie dog hole.
140
tomrobbins

39.
no. No no no. Of course not. The Cadillac hadn’t come out of a prairie dog hole. It had come down the same dirt road that Sissy had been walking. Only it drove up so suddenly—despite the fact that one could see at least twenty miles in every direction—Sissy barely had time to zip up, and she said to herself, “Where did that car come from, out of a prairie dog hole?”
It was the first time in her hitchhiking career that she regretted seeing an automobile approach.
At the wheel of the Cadillac was a teen-aged girl in a Stetson. It was the rear door of the limousine that opened, however, and a refined, matronly voice that called, “By any chance are you Sissy Hankshaw?”
“Yes I am,” said Sissy Gitche. Who else could she be?
A chic middle-aged woman leaned out of the car. “My goodness. Why didn’t you telephone? Someone would have driven into Mottburg to pick you up. I’m Miss Adrian. From the ranch. The Countess wrote that I should expect you. Get in, won’t you? You must be exhausted.
It’s warm today. Gloria, assist Miss Hankshaw with her luggage.”
Gloria nodded amicably at Sissy, but made no move to help her. Sissy swung her rucksack into the roomy vehicle. She started to follow it, but stepped back long enough to flash a thumb (Better to hitch a car that has already stopped than not to hitch at all). Then she entered and sat beside the immaculately groomed Miss Adrian. Something about Miss Adrian reminded Sissy of Julian’s white piano. In her mind, Sissy set a vase of roses on top of Miss Adrian. They looked just fine there.
The instant Sissy shut the door, the cowgirl chauffeur e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 141
floored the Cadillac and it lurched away in a homemovie of out-of-focus dust. The roses fell off the piano. The piano showed its teeth. “Little twit.” The tone was low and deep: F sharp below middle C.

Miss Adrian regained her composure. “You really ought to have phoned. I’m dreadfully sorry you had to walk this long distance, out here in the wilds. You didn’t try to reach me, did you? We were just now in Mottburg escorting some guests to the afternoon train.” Miss Adrian sighed.
An angry sigh. “More guests leaving ahead of schedule.
Three guests checked out today. They decided to transfer to Elizabeth Arden’s Maine Chance spa in Phoenix, Ari-zona. It costs a thousand dollars a week at Elizabeth Arden’s. It costs seven hundred and fifty dollars at the Rubber Rose; less if one stays a month. So why are our guests leaving and going to Elizabeth Arden’s?” Miss Adrian paused. She pushed a button, sending a partition of soundproof glass gliding shut between the passenger compartment and the driver’s seat. Through the glass, Sissy could see but not hear Gloria laughing. “I’ll tell you why,”
Miss Adrian took up again. “It’s that plague of cowgirls.”
“Miss Hankshaw, I can hardly wait for the Countess to get here and attend to this mess. You can’t imagine how horrid it’s become. At first, when they stayed in their place, it was all right. I must admit, they performed the ranch chores virtually as well as the male hands had. But they’ve gradually infiltrated every sector of our program.
The one named Debbie considers herself an expert on exercising and diet. With Bonanza Jellybean’s permission, and against my explicit orders, she’s been coercing the guests into trying something called kundalini yoga. Do you know what that is? Let me enlighten you. It’s trying to mentally force a serpent of fire to crawl up your spinal column. Miss Hankshaw, our guests can’t comprehend kundalini yoga, let alone do it. And Debbie has completely taken over the menu. One month she has us eating nothing but brown rice, the following month it’s a so-called nonmucus diet and the next it’s something else.
142
tomrobbins
Yesterday, in fact, she ordered a new cookbook by a Tibetan Negro, entitled

Third Eye in the Kitchen: Hi-malayan Soul Food. God knows what that will be like.
Even the other cowgirls are complaining.
“Miss Hankshaw, I am proud of the Rubber Rose. Ba-sically, we offer the same program as Elizabeth Arden’s: mat exercises, swimming exercises, sauna, steam bath, paraffin-wax bath, massage, facials, whirlpool bath, scalp treatment, diet training, manicure, pedicure, hair-styling, make-up classes. But it’s more fun here. Arden’s Maine Chance is elegant and posh. We offer a rustic, informal dude ranch atmosphere with riding and campouts and so forth. What really sets us apart, however, from the Maine Chance and all other spas is our program of intimate conditioning. Miss Hankshaw, we are adult women, you and I; we can speak frankly about such things. When a woman comes to a beauty spa, she does so to make herself sexually attractive to men. That’s it in a nutshell. There often are other considerations, of course, but essentially our client is a mateless bird in need of preening.” (The ornithological allusion set Sissy to thinking of past parakeets and future whooping cranes.) “Other spas recognize this, but they don’t go far enough. What use is it to lure a man to bed, pardon me if I am blunt, if he is to be offended or disappointed there? That is why we at the Rubber Rose stress feminine hygiene, vagina-tightening exercises and so forth. Well, this week the cowgirls invaded the sexual reconditioning room, and the uncouth practices they advocated there my tongue refuses to describe. Shocking beyond belief. The little barbarians are destroying all that I’ve built, mocking all that the company stands for. When the Countess gets here . . . I’ve been afraid to complain in the past. Oh, Jellybean is more bark than bite, and most of the girls, for all their bad manners, wouldn’t harm a fly. But there’s a new one, one they call del Ruby. She has the good will of a scorpion; oh, if you could see the way she looks at me! Anyway, I’ve considered it prudent to avoid a confrontation that might fur-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 143
ther upset the guests. But now that the season is practically over—we operate April through September—and the Countess is finally coming . . .”
They were in the hills now. The sun was sinking. Taking its tambourine with it, the wind went home to supper.
Grass lost the beat and fell still. An American loneliness, which is like no other loneliness in the world, was spreading on all sides of the Cadillac, creeping out

of the cooling soil, out of the air itself; smelling sweet, colored like the pinched feet of tired salesmen, tasting of sweat and beer and fried potatoes, haunted by childhood dreams and the ghosts of Indians—a lonering gloaming coiling like a smoky snake out of the busted suitcase of the continent.
The limousine moved through the hush like a dentist’s drill.
Inside the vehicle, Miss Adrian continued to talk. Obviously she was distraught. Sissy said nothing. Maybe Sissy was not even listening. Who could tell? Sissy sat as she usually sat, supporting her thumbs affectionately upon crossed legs— and smiling. She grinned the invincible soft grin that some people associate with madness, that others attribute to spiritual depth, but that in reality is simply the grin that comes from the secret heart of very private experience.

40.
bang! Bang bang bang! Bang squared and bang cubed.
Bang conjugated and Bang koked.
They arrived at the ranch to the sound of gunfire.
“O merciful Jesus!” cried Miss Adrian. “They’re murdering the guests!”
The main house, the bunkhouse, the stables and outbuildings were deserted. There was no one around the spread at all except for a couple of men in Hollywood sweaters, loitering by the corral. More gunfire.
144
tomrobbins
Miss Adrian was hysterical. She ran up to one of the men and seized him by the shoulders. “Where are the guests?” she shrieked.
The man seemed indignant. “Take it easy, lady,” he said.
“They went on a short ride with the cowgirls. Rode over the hill yonder. You’re Miss Adrian, aren’t you? We need to talk to you about the filming.”
“Not now, you fool, not now. Those crazed bitches have led innocent women out and are slaughtering them at this moment. We’ll all be killed. Oh! Ohhhh!”
The other cameraman spat out a wad of chewing gum, launching it on a trajectory that carried it over the corral fence. “There’s a slaughter going on all right, but it’s not the fat ladies that are getting it. Your hired hands are killing the cattle.” He looked guiltily at the pink cud of gum, lying now among horse droppings and clods. “It’ll be okay if a nag steps in that, I guess. Chewing gum is made out of horses’ hooves to begin with. Everything has got a homing instinct, even Dentyne.”

In the twilight, Miss Adrian’s complexion looked like a silver spoon that had been left overnight in a dish of mayon-naise. “The cattle? They’re killing the cows? All of them?”
“That’s what they said, Miss Adrian. They invited your guests to go along so’s to see what ranch life was really like. They invited the staff, too. It’s getting dark. They should be back pretty . . . Here they come now.”
As the party rode into sight, Miss Adrian counted the guests. All present. She counted her staff. The manicurist and masseuse were having the time of their lives. They had never been allowed on a Rubber Rose outing before.
Had Miss Adrian gone on to count the cowgirls, she would have discovered four missing: the three left behind to guard the slain cattle—and Debbie, who, as a vegetarian, would have no part in the slaughter and was even now over at Siwash Lake in the bird blind with a cinematographer, making love not beef.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 145

41.
the even cowgirls get the blues hearty stew recipe:
Peel onions. Pare potatoes and carrots. Cut meat into bite-size chunks. Drop into boiling water. Add sprinkle of parsley, sage, rosemary, simon and garfunkle. Caution: Under no circumstances use beef from the Rubber Rose Ranch.
To a veterinarian, the Rubber Rose herd was one of the greatest spectacles on Earth.
Threadworms? The Rubber Rose cows had so many threadworms in their bronchial tubes that they coughed from dusk to dawn like an opium den full of Julian Gitches. Hair balls? These cows had hair balls to rival the tumbling tumbleweeds. They had fevers and fissures and gas and gnats. They had hernias of the rumen and hernias of the rennet. The entire herd suffered from variola, displaying its symptomatic pustular eruptions upon their teats and udders. Actinomycosis, known to farmers as
“big jaw” or “wooden tongue,” rattled the teeth of these bovines. A peek down their throats would disclose evidence of parotitis, not to mention pharyngeal polypi as large as boysenberries. There were random cases of foul foot, inverted eyelid and scurfy ear, and one of the bulls was so afflicted with orchitis that he walked with a straddling gait, lest his geranium red testicles sound a painful gong against his thighs.
According to Bonanza Jellybean, the Rubber Rose herd was indicative of the Countess’s values. He had purchased a cheap, weak strain to begin with, to hear Jelly tell it, whereupon improper care by a succession of uninterested ranch hands had taken its toll. After futile attempts at 146
tomrobbins
restoring the herd to health, Jelly decided to put it out of its misery. Actually, it had been Delores’s idea. Debbie, who would swat no living thing, and who believed that nature must run its course, opposed euthanasia. Miss Adrian, naturally, opposed it also. She was furious at the deed. “How dare you slaughter

the Countess’s cattle! Just wait until he gets his hands on you! What is a ranch without cows?” And so on.
Jelly’s response—“We’re going to replace them with goats”—only made her more angry. She was for telephoning the Countess that very evening, except that the cinematographers managed to squeeze a word in and inform her that they’d already tried, unsuccessfully, to phone the Countess—he was a guest of the President at the White House and couldn’t be reached.
The cinematographers were a bit upset themselves.
They had received a letter of instructions from the Countess that day, and only then did they realize that the douche bag tycoon expected them to film a mating dance.
A mating dance? Oh dear. Like most geniuses, the Countess was a very limited person. Sigmund Freud was so ignorant of art that the Surrealist painters had to explain their use of Freudian symbols over and over again, and still he didn’t get it. Einstein never could remember to take the biscuits out of the oven. Those same forces that drive a genius to create the things or ideas that entertain or enlighten us often gobble so much of his personality that he has none left for the social graces (Should you invite Van Gogh to your home he might stand on your sofa in his muddy boots and pee where he pleased), and the very act of creation requires such focused concentration that vast areas of knowledge may be completely overlooked. Well, so what? There is no evidence that generalized skills are in any way superior to specialized brilliance, and certainly that sputterless little candleflame of the mediocre mind known as “common sense” has never produced anything worth celebrating. But back to the point.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 147
The Countess, in the demands of his genius, had overlooked one small fact of
nature— birds mate in the spring.
Birds mate in the spring. No amount of coaxing, libidi-nous stimulation or aphrodisiac birdseed will cause them to punch in early. Even horned owls will couple only in springtime.

The Countess had retained an expert wildlife camera crew to shoot whooping crane footage. He was a trifle tardy in advising it that he expected film of the mating rite. The cinematographers were vexed, but they offered a possible alternative to moving the operation to the Gulf Coast and waiting for spring. It seems, they told Miss Adrian, that a whooping crane will sometimes dance outside the breeding cycle. They have been known to perform their ballet simply as a physical or emotional outlet.
Occasionally a crane may execute a short but dazzling dance just for the hell of it. Perhaps one or more cranes might be inspired to perform during the Siwash Lake stop-over. If the cameramen were alert, they might get enough dance footage to suit the Countess’s purposes.
But as for this model who was supposed to be in the film, she would have to be shot separately and superimposed.
Miss Adrian didn’t know what to tell them. “You’ll just have to discuss it with the Countess,” she said. She had a poison headache.
“Come along, Miss Hankshaw,” she uttered through the pain. “I’ll show you to your room, and see that you get something to eat—if there is anything to eat besides brown rice and bean sprouts.”
The camermen stared at the pair of thumbs that came swinging around from the opposite side of the Cadillac: pillows of sugar, clouds of meat, filling the lenses of their camera eyes.
One of the men wiped his brow. “Come back, Walt, all is forgiven,” he moaned. The Rubber Rose. Disney’s was never like this.
148
tomrobbins

42.
for the next few days, the ranch stood on one leg (more in imitation of flamingo anxiety than of what the poet García Lorca called “the ecstasy of cranes”). The ranch wasn’t going to set its other foot down until the Countess came.
Meanwhile, the cowgirls dug a lime pit in which to bury the snuffed cattle. After it was dug, they had to fill it up again. That’s the way it is with holes; they’re insatiable.
The hands worked from early morning until sundown.
They took their meals from the chuck wagon, and when supper was done, rode to the bunkhouse and bombed directly into bed. From her window, Sissy watched them come and go, heard their weary laughter and observed the dimples in their skintight Levis opening and closing like the mouths of tropical fish.
Taking advantage of the hands’ absence, Miss Adrian sought to reestablish her control over the health-and-beauty program. No longer did ladies grunt in carbohy-drate confusion, trying to squeeze a “fiery serpent” up their spines.
Sissy was given a tour of the facilities, most of which were in a wing of the main house: the sauna and the buildings that housed steam baths and the mysteries of “sexual reconditioning” were separate, a few yards away. Miss Adrian invited Sissy to use the pool and the sauna whenever she wished, but the manager was busy putting things straight and had little time for the thumby model from New York.
The cinematographers spoke with her the first morning, as they picked up additional provisions for the blinds, which, due to the presumed approach of Crane Hour, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 149
they dared not leave again. They offered to show her the pond and the blinds, but repeated what they’d said earlier about having to film her separately. “No whooping crane is gonna let you get that close to it,” they said. “Hell, whoopers don’t even like other birds around.” The cameramen weren’t entirely sure there was going to be any filming. Nobody would know anything until the Countess

arrived.
So the ranch stood on one leg and waited.
And all the while, this clumsy balancing act was being nonchalantly scrutinized —leisurely leered upon, some might say—by a short man with a long white beard, a sure-footed man whose periodic appearances along the eroded poop decks and wind-carved turrets of Siwash Ridge had such an air of the occult, the supernatural, that he may excite the imaginations of many an eager mind, while others may find him merely disconcerting and shake their heads suspiciously.
But now, as we observe events at the ranch, and observe, further, the old gentleman who observed them, now is not the time for either reckless excitement or cynical scoffing. We must regard this business coolly, objectively, with a philosophy of operative wholeness. We must suspend, temporarily, a critical or analytical approach. Let us, rather, gather facts, all the facts, regardless of aesthetic appeal or theoretical social worth, and spread those facts before us not as the soothsayer spreads the innards of a turkey but as a newspaper spreads its columns. Let us be as journalists, then. And like all good journalists, we shall present our facts in an order that will satisfy the famous five W’s: wow, whoopee, wahoo, why-not and whew.
150
tomrobbins

43.
on the fifth morning, as the Indian summer sun popped up from behind the hills like a hyperthyroid Boy Scout, burning to do good deeds, Sissy was awakened by the tinkle of breakfast trays. She yawned and stretched and held her thumbs up in the sunlight to make sure there had been no overnight change. Then she propped herself up on pillows—she felt rested but uneasy—and awaited the knock at her door.
Breakfast in bed was a tradition Miss Adrian had installed at the Rubber Rose. It seemed like a nice idea to Sissy until she lifted the cloth cover from her first tray and encountered decaffeinated coffee with saccharine, fresh grapefruit without sugar and a piece of Melba toast: the guests were on a strict 900-calories-a-day regime. At least they were when Debbie was not running the kitchen.
Sissy had had more luxurious breakfasts in jail.
The morning maid, who doubled as a bath therapist, delivered her tray this fifth day and stood by, as if to take sadistic amusement in watching Sissy unveil a meal that would piss off the taste buds of a saint. But when our Sis removed the cover, she discovered (in addition to a vase of prairie asters) a double-meat cheeseburger, a package of Hostess Twinkies, a cold can of Dr. Pepper and a Three Musketeers bar; in short, just the sort of repast she might have procured for herself had she been on the road.
A dragon who’d been served Princess Anne on a platter could not have grinned with more gastronomical satisfaction.
“Compliments of Bonanza Jellybean,” said the maid.
“She’ll be up to see you directly.”
Sure enough, about the time Sissy clinked the last e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 151
droplet of the Doctor’s peppy nectar out of the can and dabbed a final trace of chocolate from her lips, there was a fist against her door and in sailed the tresses, teeth and titties of a cowgirl so cute she made Sissy blush just to look at her. She

wore a tan Stetson with as aster pinned to it, a green satin shirt embroidered with rearing stallions snorting orange fire from their nostrils, a neckerchief, a leather vest as white as a corpse, of the same cadaverous leather a skirt so short that if her thighs had been a clock the skirt would have been five minutes to midnight, and a pair of handtooled Tony Lama boots, the toes of which you could pick your teeth with. There were silver spurs fastened to her boots, and encircling her trim waist, just above the slightly bulging baby fat of her belly, a wide, turquoise-studded belt, from which dangled a holster and the holster’s inhabitant, a genuine six-shooter with a long nose like bad news from the clinic. She flashed honey thighs when she walked, her breasts bounced like dinner rolls that had gotten loaded on helium and, between red-tinged cheeks, where more baby fat was taking its time maturing, she had a little smile that could cause minerals and plastics to remember their ancient animate connections.
She grasped Sissy’s elbow (not daring to get too close to the thumb) and sat on the side of the bed. “Welcome, podner,” she said. “By God, it’s great to have you here.
It’s an honor. Sorry I took so long getting to you, but we’ve had a mess of hard work these past few days—and a heap of planning to do.” When she pronounced the word
“planning,” her voice assumed a conspiratorial, almost ominous, tone.
“Er, you seem to know who I am,” said Sissy, “and maybe even what I am. Thanks for the breakfast.”
“Oh, I know about Sissy Hankshaw, all right,” said Jelly. “I’ve done a little hitchhiking myself. Ah shucks, that’s like telling Annie Oakley you’re a sharpshooter because you once knocked a tomato can off a stump with a fieldstone. I haven’t done a lick of serious hitching. But 152
tomrobbins
starting when I was about eleven, I used to run away from home every couple of months and try to find a place where I could be a cowgirl. Somebody always sent me back to Kansas City, though. No ranch ever let me stay and some of ’em had me locked up. Lot of times the law picked me up before I could get outta Kansas. But I got around enough to hear about you. First time was in Wyoming. Some deputy says to me, ‘Who do you think you are—Sissy Hankshaw?’ I says,

‘No, you dumb fuck, I’m Margaret Meade,’ and he whipped me good, but not before he’d aroused my curiosity about this Sissy Hankshaw person. Later, I’d hear tales about you from people I’d meet in jail cells and truckstops. I heard about your, uh, your, ah, your wonderful thumbs, and I heard how you were Jack Kerouac’s girl friend . . .”
Setting her tray on the bedside table, Sissy interrupted.
“No, I’m afraid that part isn’t true. Jack was in awe of me and tracked me down. We spent a night talking and hugging in a corn field, but he was hardly my lover. He was a sweet man and a more honest writer than his critics, including the Countess’s little playmate Truman, who said such bitchy things about him. But he was strictly a primitive as a hitchhiker. Besides, I always traveled alone.”
“Well, that doesn’t matter; that part never interested me anyway. The beatniks were before my time, and I never got anything outta the hippies but bad dope, clichés and the clap. But you, even though you weren’t a cowgirl, you were sort of an inspiration to me. The example of your life helped me in my struggle to be a cowgirl.”
New York City keeps its allotment of sunshine in a Swiss bank account and tries to get by on the interest, which is compounded quarterly. In contrast, the Dakota sun is as open as the books of a village church steward, and even in September, after summer’s big bucks have all been spent, it is so charitable no one would think of demanding an audit. Sunlight streaked into the credits column of the Rubber Rose, making a series of warm entries upon the bare legs of Bonanza Jellybean and upon the up-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 153
raised legs of Sissy H. Gitche, bare, too, beneath the quilt.
During a sunlit pause in conversation, the puffs and huffs of the guests at their early exercises were heard, and for no good reason, the two women giggled.
“Tell me about it,” said Sissy. “About . . .”
“About being a cowgirl. What’s it all about? When you say the word you make it sound like it was painted in ra-dium on the side of a pearl.”

Jelly drew her feet up on the bed, not minding that her boots bore testimony to the digestive facility of the equine species. “I saw my first cowgirl in a Sears cata-logue. I was three. Up until then I had heard only of cowboys. I said, ‘Mama, Daddy, that’s what I want Santa Claus to bring me.’ And I got a cowgirl outfit that Christmas. Next Christmas I got another one because I’d worn that first one to shreds. I asked for a cowgirl suit, as we called ’em, every Christmas until I was ten, and then my folks told me, ‘You’re too big now; Santa doesn’t have any cowgirl suits that’ll fit you. How’d you like a Barbie doll with her own fashion wardrobe?’ ‘Bullshit,’ I said.
‘Dale Evans wears cowgirl suits and she’s way bigger than me. I want new cowgirl clothes and a gun that shoots.’ I’d been teased by my classmates for some time because of my particular fantasy, but that year was when my real struggle began.”
As if prodded by a hard memory of childhood, Jelly sat up straight, making the bed creak. Sissy realigned her own posture, and another creak was issued. Sissy’s creak followed Jelly’s creak down the hall of sonar eternity.
Sounds travel through space long after their wave patterns have ceased to be detectable by the human ear; some cut right through the ionosphere and barrel on out into the cosmic heartland, while others bounce around, eventually being absorbed into the vibratory fields of earthly barri-ers, but in neither case does the energy succumb; it goes on forever—which is why we, each of us, should take pains to make sweet notes.
154
tomrobbins
“I just said ‘fantasy’ and ‘struggle’ in the same sentence, and on one level, at least, I guess that’s what it’s about.
That’s what it’s about for cowgirls, and maybe everybody else. A lot of life boils down to the question of whether a person is going to be able to realize his fantasies, or else end up surviving only through compromises he can’t face up to. The way I figure it, Heaven and Hell are right here on Earth. Heaven is living in your hopes and Hell is living in your fears. It’s up to each individual which one

he chooses.” Jelly paused. “I told that to the Chink once and he said, ‘Every fear is part hope and every hope is part fear—quit dividing things up and taking sides.’ Well, that’s the Chink for you. What do you think?”
“I’d like to hear more,” said Sissy. She was feeling a certain kinship with this duded-up bundle of wild muscle and baby fat. “Can you be more specific?”
“Specific. Okay. I’m talking about our fantasies. You know the difference between fantasy and reality, don’t you? Fantasy is when you wake up at four o’clock on Christmas morning and you’re so crazy excited you can’t possibly go back to sleep. But when you go downstairs and look under the tree—podner, that’s reality.
“They teach us to believe in Santa Claus, right? And the Easter Bunny. Wondrous critters, both of ’em. Then one day they tell us, ‘Well, there really isn’t any Santa Claus or Easter Bunny, it was Mama and Daddy all along.’ So we feel a bit cheated, but we accept it because, after all, we got the goodies, no matter where they came from, and the Tooth Fairy never had much credibility to begin with.
Okay. So they let you dress up like a cowgirl, and when you say, ‘I’m gonna be a cowgirl when I grow up,’ they laugh and say, ‘Ain’t she cute.’ Then one day they tell you, ‘Look, honey, cowgirls are only play. You can’t really be one.’ And that’s when I holler, ‘Wait a minute!
Hold on! Santa and the Easter Bunny, I understand; they were nice lies and I don’t blame you for them. But now you’re screwing around with my personal identity, with my plans for the future. What do you mean I can’t be a e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 155
cowgirl?’ When I got the answer, I began to realize there was a lot bigger difference between me and my brother than what I could see in the bathtub.
“You dig me, don’t you? A little boy, he can play like he’s a fireman or a cop— although fewer and fewer are pretending to be cops, thank God—or a deep-sea diver or a quarterback or a spaceman or a rock ’n roll star or a cowboy, or anything else glamorous and exciting (Author’s note: What about a novelist, Jellybean?), and although chances are by the time he’s in high school he’ll get channeled into safer, duller ambitions, the great truth is, he can be any of those things, realize any of those fantasies, if he has the strength, nerve and sincere

desire. Yep, it’s true; any boy anywhere can grow up to be a cowpoke even today if he wants to bad enough. One of the top wranglers on the circuit right now was born and raised in the Bronx. Little boys may be discouraged from adventurous yearnings by parents and teachers, but their dreams are indulged, nevertheless, and the possibilities of fulfilling their childhood expectations do exist. But little girls? Podner, you know that story as well as me. Give
’em doll babies, tea sets and toy stoves. And if they show a hankering for more bodacious playthings, call ’em tomboy, humor ’em for a few years and then slip ’em the bad news. If you’ve got a girl who persists in fantasizing a more exciting future for herself than housewifery, desk-jobbing or motherhood, better hustle her off to a child psychologist. Force her to face up to reality. And the reality is, we got about as much chance of growing up to be cowgirls as Eskimos have got being vegetarians. I’ll tell you.”
Sissy’s right thumb, which she’d been hesitant to move lest it disturb Jelly’s oration, had gone to sleep—and when a Sissy thumb sleeps it snores! She massaged it vigor-ously. “What about in movies or rodeos?” she inquired.
“Ha!” said Jelly with dramatic disdain. “Movies. There hasn’t been a cowgirl in Hollywood since the days of the musical Westerns. The last movie cowgirl disappeared 156
tomrobbins
when Roy and Gene got fat and fifty. And there’s never been a movie about cowgirls. Delores del Ruby, she’s really down on Dale Evans. Says she was just an accessory for the good guy in the white hat, a weakling to be protected, a piece of sex interest who never got laid. I don’t know. I thought ol’ Dale looked mighty fine up there on that screen. But she did ride second saddle, all right.
Well, galloping your pretty ass off trying to escape the hoss thieves was better than nothing. Today, we got nothing.”
As Sissy kneaded circulation back into her thumb, it took on a rosy glow, like the Renaissance cherub that sneaked a bite out of a madonna’s halo. Jelly was astonished, but she continued talking.
“Let me tell you about rodeos.” she said. “In the Rodeo Hall of Fame in Oklahoma City there are just two cowgirls. Two. The Rodeo Cowboys

Association has more than three thousand members. How many do you suppose are women? You could count ’em on your fingers, thumbs excluded. And all of ’em are trick-riders. Trick-riding is what cowgirls have almost always done in rodeos. Our society sure likes to see its unconventional women do tricks. That’s what prostitutes call it, you know: ‘tricking.’
“For nine years, from nineteen twenty-four through nineteen thirty-three, females were allowed to enter events just the same as the cowboys: putting up entrance fees, riding bucking broncs, wrestling bulls, roping calves, doing all the things men did. They did okay, too. Tad Lucas, the greatest cowgirl who ever lived, earned ten thousand dollars a year in prize money, and that was at a time when six or seven thousand was a hell of a good season for a rodeo cowboy. But the RCA cut women off in thirty-three. Said it was too dangerous. Well, it was dangerous. Tad Lucas broke nearly every bone in her body at one time or another. The Brahma bulls damn near made chop suey of her. But the men got hurt, too. They were wired together like birdcages, most of ’em. Ah, but it e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 157
wasn’t so brutal when it happened to a man. Why is it men are allowed to do dangerous things and hurt themselves and women aren’t? I don’t know. But I do know that they outlawed cowgirls, except for trick-riders and parade queens. A woman has not been permitted to compete for prize money in a rodeo in forty years. Say, podner, that’s really something the way your thumb kinda shines when you rub it. How do you do that?”
The digit in question was now wide awake. It has been said that consciousness of light is light, which would explain the luminous doughnuts that rolled ’round the heads of Buddhas and Christs, but can thumbflesh have consciousness, have speed, have spirit? “I think it’s the blood,” said Sissy. “There’re large veins in there, close to the surface.” Although, energized as it was, she would have preferred to stick it in the air by some road where traffic was flying, Sissy stuck the thumb under the quilt.
Jelly watched it go with eyes that suggested she would have liked to follow it. “Apparently,” ventured Sissy,
“there just isn’t any demand for cowgirls.”
“That’s not exactly true,” said Jelly, slowly, forcefully.

“That’s not exactly true. The System has no demand for them; you’re right about that. But there is a demand—and that demand comes from the hearts of little girls.
“Cowgirls exist as an image. A fairly common image.
The idea of cowgirls prevails in our culture. Therefore, it seems to me, the fact of cowgirls should prevail. Otherwise, we’re being ripped off again. I mean, isn’t that the way religions mess people’s heads around: beautiful concepts without anything factual to back ’em up? When I was a kid and I was told that this role I’d been allowed to love so much was impossible to attain, wow, did I get mad! And I’ve been mad ever since. So I decided to try to do something about it—to satisfy my own inner needs and to show society it couldn’t get away with making me love something that didn’t exist.”
Unable to restrain herself, Jelly lay her hand atop the ovoid mound Sissy’s thumb made under the cover. It was 158
tomrobbins
warm. “How about you, Sissy? Did you want to be a cowgirl when you were small?”
“Can’t say as I did. But you have to understand, I was rather a special case.” What would Bonanza Jellybean think were Sissy to disclose that she had wanted to grow up to be an Indian? Take um heap many scalps beside um sky-blue waters. “It’s funny. I once hitched a ride on a camel in Afghanistan, but I’ve never been on a horse in my life.”
“We’ll take care of that. You’re at the Rubber Rose now.
But let me confess something to you before you start thinking I’m another Tad Lucas. Until last year, the only thing I’d ever straddled was the Shetland ponies at the Kansas City Zoo. And a man or two, of course. But I’m a cowgirl. I’ve always been a cowgirl. Caught a silver bullet when I was only twelve. Now I’m in a position where I can help others become cowgirls, too. If a child wants to grow up to be a cowgirl, she ought to be able to do it, or else this world ain’t worth living in. I want every little girl—and every boy, for that matter—to be free to realize their fantasies. Anything less than that is unacceptable to me.”

“You’re political, then?” Sissy had been learning about politics from Julian.
“No ma’am” said Jelly. “No way. There’s girls on the Rubber Rose who are political, but I don’t share their views. I got no cowgirl ideology to expound. I’m not recruiting and I’m not converting. Whether or not another girl chooses the cowgirl path is immaterial to me. It’s a personal matter. I’m willing to help other cowgirls; to make it easier for them than it was for me. But don’t get the notion I’m trying to create a movement or contribute to one. Delores del Ruby makes a big fuss about cowgirlism being a force to combat cowboyism, but I’m too happy just being a cowgirl to worry about stuff like that.
Politics is for people who have a passion for changing life but lack a passion for living it.”
Beneath Jelly’s dollbaby grip, the Sissy plasma, like a e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 159
swarm of red bees, followed its charted currents in the thumb’s interior passageways. Jelly pressed lightly upon this hive, in which such quantities of blood were buzzing, and gave its owner a look that even upon the countenance of a cowpoke could only be called sheepish. “Did that last comment sound too profound to be coming outta my mouth? It’s not original. It’s something I picked up from the Chink.”
“Really? The Chink, huh? I’ve gathered that you sometimes speak with him. What else have you learned from the Chink?”
“Learned from the Chink? Oh my. Ha ha. That’s hard to say. We mostly . . . Uh, a lot of his talk is pretty goofy.”
Jelly paused. “Oh yeah, now that I think of it, the Chink taught me something about cowgirls. Did you realize that cowgirls have been around for many centuries? Long before America. In ancient India the care of the cattle was always left up to young women. The Indian cowgirls were called gopis. Being alone with the cows all the time, the gopis got awfully horny, just like we do here. Every gopi was in love with Krishna, a good-looking young god who played the flute like it was going outta style. When the moon was full, this Krishna would play his flute by a river and call the gopis to him. Then he would multiply himself sixteen thousand times—one for each gopi—and make love to each one the way she most desired. There they were, sixteen thousand gopis

balling Krishna on the river bank, and the energy of their merging was so great that it created a huge oneness, a total union of love, and it was God. Wow! Quite a picture, huh? When I repeated this story to Debbie, she got so enthused she wanted us to call ourselves gopis from then on. We discussed it at a bunkhouse meeting, though, and decided ‘ gopis’ sounded too much like ‘groupies.’ Well, we don’t need that. We got enough static, with the folks around Mottburg calling us sluts. And lesbians.”
Sissy’s thumb twitched. Jelly swallowed hard. They 160 tomrobbins
gazed into each other’s eyes, Sissy trying to tell how Jelly felt saying the word, Jelly trying to ascertain how Sissy felt hearing it, and as they gazed, soft little shocks danced between them, like drunken oysters strutting along a harp string.
They might have gazed until the cows came home, except that, in addition to the cows’ being lately deceased, a whistle pierced the sunlight just outside the window.
“That couldn’t be Krishna, could it?” smiled Jelly. “A bit shrill for a flute. Just our rotten luck.”
She walked to the window and exchanged hand signals with someone outside. Turning to Sissy, she said, “Gotta run now. Delores says I’m needed. Somebody’s here.
Maybe it’s the Countess.” She fast-drew her six-shooter, spinning it expertly in her kewpie fingers. “Sissy, cowgirl history is about to be made. I’m damn glad you’re here to witness it.” With her gun-spinning pinkies, she tossed a kiss and was gone.
A sneeze travels at a peak velocity of two hundred miles per hour. A burp, more slowly; a fart, slower yet.
But a kiss thrown by fingers—its departure is sudden, its arrival ambiguous, and there is no source that can state with authority what speeds are reached in its flight.

44.
when her swallows had finished Capistranoing, Sissy hopped out of bed. From the window, she could see cowgirls gathering in a circle. Someone or something was in the center of the circle. Sissy performed an abbreviated toilet, zipped herself into a red jumpsuit and hurried outside. It didn’t bother her much that she didn’t know what to expect. She never had.
What was in the center of the circle was a goat. Billy e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 161
West, Mottburg’s three-hundred-pound midnight rambler, had dropped it off as a sample. There were plenty more goats where that one came from, said Billy West.
For the cowgirls, a discount price of twenty dollars a goat.
Debbie was scratching the animal’s ears. She was hugging it. “I’m like Mahatma Gandhi,” she said. “I’ll never be without a goat again.”
“It’s cute,” said Kym. “Way cuter than a cow.”
“Goats are always testing you,” said Debbie. “They’re like Zen masters. They can tell instantly if you’re faking your feelings. So they play games with you to keep you true. People should go to goats instead of psychiatrists.”
“It’s so loving,” said Gloria. She cut in on Debbie, gave the beast a hug. “Goats are the ultimate male and female,” said Debbie.
“Watching a pair of goats is understanding what the male-female trip is all about. Every couple ought to be given a pair of goats when they get married. There’d be no more need for marriage counselors.”
“Look at those playfully wise eyes,” cooed Heather. “When can we get more?” inquired Elaine.

“Oooo! It licked me!” squealed Gloria.
When she tired of watching the goat, Sissy started back to her room. She thought she might hitchhike the wallpaper or something. But Jelly caught up with her. “Looks like we’re gonna become goatgirls,” she said.
“Will that make a difference?” asked Sissy. “A difference to your fantasy, I mean.”
“Not a speck,” said Jelly. “It’s like the gourmet the Chink told me about who gave up everything, traveled thousands of miles and spent his last dime to get to the highest lamasery in the Himalayas to taste the dish he’d longed for his whole life, Tibetan peach pie. When he got there, frostbitten, exhausted and ruined, the lamas said they were all out of peach. ‘Okay,’ said the gourmet,
‘make it apple.’ Peach, apple; cows, goats. You understand?” Sissy thought that it must have something to do with 162 tomrobbins
the primacy of form over function, thus approximating her own approach to hitchhiking, wherein an emotional and physical structure created by variations and intensifications of the act of hitching was of far more importance than the utilitarian goals commonly supposed to be the sole purpose of the act. She was still thinking it over when Jelly said, “Say, there’s a sexual reconditioning class in five minutes. Some of us are gonna crash it. To pass on some helpful information and correct some misconceptions.
You like to come along?”
The S. R. building was of rustic exterior. It could have been a blacksmith shop. Inside, there were thick rubber mats and harem cushions all over the floor of a single, dimly lit room. At the rear of the room, partly concealed by a brocade curtain, was a flush toilet, gleaming in porce-lain ostentation like one of the Countess’s incisors. At the front there stood a long, low table, upon which was displayed a harvest of vials, bottles, boxlets, spray cans and ointment tubes, as well as a pair of dainty pink rubber apparatuses that looked like the twin nieces of an enema bag.

Approximately a dozen women sat upon the floor, facing the table. Half of them were noticeably overweight, several were as skinny as light verse and appeared to be as burned-out as old sparkplugs although a few of the women seemed to Sissy to be quite attractive and in no need of the Rubber Rose Ranch’s ministrations. Sissy wondered what lemons her destiny would have to suck before she might find herself a client of a place such as this.
Led by Debbie, the cowgirls set right to work. “There’s only one excuse for ever douching,” Debbie informed her captive audience, “and that’s to cure an irritation or infection. In which case, you want to be real careful about what you slosh on the inflamed tissues. There are eleven herbs or natural substances suitable for douching the vagina. These are: fennel, fit root, slippery elm, gum ara-bic, white pond lily, marsh mallow . . .”
“Marshmallow?” asked one of the more obese ladies, incredulously.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 163
Debbie was earnest. “Marsh mallow or Althaea offici-nalis is a pink-flowering plant that grows in marshy places. It’s an excellent medicinal herb, a fact that’s often obscured by the sweet white confectionery paste that can be made by boiling down its mucilaginous roots. Now, where were we. Marsh mallow, wild alum root, uva ursi, fenugreek, bayberry bark . . .” Debbie clicked off the herb names, but the fat woman was no longer listening. Her eyes had glazed over as she pondered the pleasures of a marshmallow douche, losing her conscious mind in toffee whipped-cream molasses visions of vaginal delight.
Somewhat later in the lecture, Delores grabbed a can of Dew spray mist from the table and slung it in the air. Jelly drew her six-gun and tried to blast it before it hit the floor. She missed, but the class got the point. The shot brought Miss Adrian running from the main house, where she’d been delayed while attempting once again to phone the Countess in Washington, D.C. She arrived in time to hear:
“There isn’t a man alive, unless he’s some masochistic chemical fetishist, who’d dip his genitals in benzethonium chloride, and any woman who sprays hers with it is a dupe.”

Thinking of the ranch’s image, thinking, too, perhaps, of Delores’s whip and Jelly’s pistol, Miss Adrian struggled to restrain herself. “Girls,” she said. “Girls.”
“Just a minute, ma’am,” urged Jellybean. “We’re almost through. We got one more little piece of pertinent info to pass along. A vivacious lady like yourself might find it interesting.” She bade Miss Adrian stand aside, then turned to the audience.
“Now as Debbie has already mentioned, not only is a woman’s natural essence nothing to be ashamed of, the truth of the matter is it’s a positive thing that works in our favor. Here’s a little self-celebration I bet you ladies never thought of. What you do is reach down with your fingers and get them wet with your juices. Then you rub it in behind your ears . . .”
164
tomrobbins “Behind your ears???”
This brought the class to full attention. It even brought the fat lady back from marshmallow land. It brought Miss Adrian to the edge of a dead faint.
“Yeah, behind your ears. And a dab on your throat, if you want. When it dries, there’s no whiff of low tide about it at all. It’s a wonderful perfume. Very subtle and very mischievous. Men are attracted, I guarantee you.
Why, in Europe women have been using it for centuries.
That’s why Neapolitan girls are so seductive. You don’t believe me, do you? Here, I’ll prove how nice it is.”
Jelly slipped her hand up inside her skirt and began priming the essence. Before she could complete the demonstration, however, Miss Adrian, pale and shaking, began to blubber. She was raving about something, but nobody could understand her. She made a sudden lunge for Jelly’s gun, but Jelly, who was getting pretty good at the fast draw, whisked her hand out of her crotch in time to ward off the older woman’s gambit. The cowgirls figured it was time to retreat.

Tittering and jabbering, they went to the stables and saddled up. Jelly and Big Red helped Sissy mount a calm mare. They rode eastward for two or three miles, to where the hills began leveling off into prairie. The breeze in the grasses made a sound like a silk-lined opera coat falling to the floor of a carriage. Continuously. Except that the breeze in the grasses was actually the breeze in the asters, for wherever the party trotted or looked, the ground was wiggling with asters, yellow-eyed and purple-petaled, like daisies wine-stained after an orgy of the gods.
More than one cowgirl thought of old high school English Wordsworth, him wandering lonely as a cloud that floats o’er vales and hills, when all at once he saw a crowd, a host, of golden daffodils. But these asters were no crowd, and no host, either: they were a planet, a universe, a goddamned infinity of flowers. Who’d have thought that Gary Cooper’s prairie; Crazy Horse’s prairie; the westward ho the wagons! prairie; the hard, flat belly of e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 165
America prairie became in September such a garden of gentle blooms? Everywhere, asters waved as if practicing the art of waving. The purity of the movement gave Sissy’s thumbs the Big Itch, but the cowpokes were stilled by the solitary sweep of the spectacle, and they, all of them, rode back toward the ranch with a papery noise of peace in their minds, asters of the heart forcing their way to the light.
Upon arrival, they discovered the goat, which they’d tied to the corral fence with a long rope, busily eating the top off the cinematographers’ convertible. It had already eaten the front-seat upholstery and part of the steering wheel of Miss Adrian’s Cadillac limousine. And, as hors d’oeuvres, perhaps, it had cruised the bunkhouse clothes-line, devouring no fewer than fourteen pairs of panties, including Delores’s bayou snakeskins, Heather’s lace bikinis and Kym’s lone pair of Frederick’s of Hollywood peekaboos with their valentine-shaped cutout.
That evening, around the fireplace, there were some second thoughts about goats.

45.
“the cow milk molecule is one hundred times larger than the molecule of mother’s milk. But the goat milk molecule and the human milk molecule are practically the same size. That’s why goat milk is easy for us to digest and cow milk is like sand in the gas tank of the gut.”
“Did you ever taste ’gator’s milk?” asked Delores. Debbie didn’t know how to take that question.
“Debbie’s right,” said Bonanza Jellybean. “More and more people are discovering that cow’s milk isn’t fit for human consumption. Billy West says if we can produce enough goat’s milk on the ranch to make it worth his 166
tomrobbins
while, he’ll run it into Fargo regularly. He won controlling interest in a cheese factory there in a crap game.
They’d make goat cheese from our milk and supply health food stores throughout the plains states. If we can deal in enough volume—and keep the goats from eating the fucking boots right off our feet—the ranch could be self- supporting.”
“And we’d be performing a service,” added Debbie, ever-mindful of karma. “Goat’s milk is so good for babies whose mamas can’t nurse.”
“Speaking of babies,” said Delores, “I hope you itchy-clits who are sneaking down to the lake every night are taking precautions.”
Nobody responded vocally, although there was some nervous—and angry— squirming. Delores continued.
“I’m aware that Tad Lucas rode broncs until her ninth month, but I don’t think pregnant cowgirls are going to be any asset on this ranch. It’s bad enough we’ve got cranes coming; we don’t need storks. I feel that those filmmakers should be removed from the Rubber Rose as soon as possible. Men can cause nothing but trouble here.

I also feel that our guest”—she nodded her dark curls toward Sissy—“should be excused while we discuss this matter further.”
Jelly started to speak in Sissy’s behalf, but, assuring everyone that she understood, Sissy arose and left the bunkhouse.
A moon hung over the ranch like the muzzle of a melancholy mule. Preferring moonlight to the electric shine in the main house, where the guests were playing bridge and reading novels by John Updike, Sissy strolled around the grounds. She considered the fact that that same moon that was pouring its mule milk (data on the molecular relation to human milk unavailable at this time) upon hilltops and willow trees and cowgirl intrigues was the same moon that was beaming on the roof of Julian’s remodeled tenement. It was a trite consideration, the kind of thought that escapes from the noodles of amateur e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 167
songwriters and lovesick fraternity boys. But it placed her in touch with toothier sentiments. She and Julian Gitche, united emotionally and legally (whatever that meant), were also connected by moonlight. And by forces even more tentative and obscure. Perhaps everything was connected to everything, in a discernible if nebulous way, and if one might only trace the fibers and filaments of those connections, one might . . . One might what? Observe the Grand Design? Untangle all the puppet strings and discover whose hands (or claws) are pulling them? End the ancient search for order and meaning in the universe?
“Criminey,” sighed Sissy, kicking a horse biscuit (or was it a nylon-flavored cookie from the goat’s oven?). “If my brain were only as outsized as my thumbs, I might be able to put the whole picture in focus.”
Don’t bet on it, Sissy, honey.
Were your brain appreciably larger, large enough to put the strain on your Princess Grace neck that your loppy preaxial digits put upon your wrists, you conceivably would possess a superior intellect. It is also conceivable, however, that, with the nervous system required to fire a brain of that size, you would be so sensitive to the follies of civilization that you would feel compelled to take to the sea the way the big-brained dolphin did. Your death certificate would speak of “suicide” and “drowning,” as if your death certificate were jacket notes for the Golden Gate Bridge. No, big brains are for dolphins, who are great swimmers,

and for Martians, who, judging by their infrequent visits, don’t seem to get much of a bang out of Earth. Our brains are probably too large as they are.
Recent neurological research indicates that the brain is governed by principles it cannot understand. And if the brain is so weak or timid that it is incapable of comprehending its own governing principles, the physical laws it appears bound to obey, then it is not going to be much use to anyone confronting the Ultimate Questions, not even if it were as big as a breadbox (Ugh, what a sickening thought!). This author’s advice to his readers is to make the 168
tomrobbins
best you can of your brain—it’s pretty good storage space and the price is right —and then turn to something else.
The way that Sissy, for example, having tired of pondering invisible connections, turned to her thumbs and began hitchhiking cricket chirps as she walked back to her room.

46.
it was the sixth day, the day upon which, in the Judaeo-Christian version of Creation, God said, “Let there be strict potty training and free enterprise.” Sissy stepped out of the main house. Immediately, her eyes turned, as they invariably did, toward Siwash Ridge.
Sometimes she could distinguish a human figure up there, silhouetted against the multicolored limestone, or emerging, closer to the base, from a clump of juniper bushes, trailing its beard behind it. On this morning she was rewarded by the blurred sight and muffled noise of a commotion.
A group of cowgirls was watching the butte, also. They were leaning against the vehicle known as the “peyote wagon,” a Dodge pickup with a handmade wooden camper on its bed. The eaves of the camper were carved to resemble the open jaws of alligators, and caimans, green-skinned and fearsome of teeth, protruded in bas-relief along both sides of the luridly painted compartment. Images of iguanas and tongue-flickering saurians adorned the rear doors; the hospital white mouths of moccasins yawned from every space that was not already undulating with the killing coils, squamous wiggles and hypnotic eyes of swamp crawlers and other manifestations of the original Totem. There was no mistaking the owner of that vehicle, dressed as she was in darkest black from her e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 169
Spanish-style riding hat to her mambaskin boots: Delores (with an “e”) del Ruby.
It was that same Delores who stomped away upon Sissy’s approach, calling back coldly over her shoulder,
“The feminine hygiene business takes women for fifty million dollars a year.”
Sissy was stunned by the hostile reference to her Yoni Yum/Dew Girl activities. As if it were a baby adder from the peyote wagon’s façade, her lower lip was seized by tiny spasms. She was accustomed to having her thumbs, and the use to which she put them, ridiculed, but her modest modeling career had been the single thing about her life that people had deemed worthy.

“Don’t pay any attention to Delores,” said Kym. “She’s got a sharp stick up her ass.”
“Yes,” agreed Debbie. “I’ll sure be glad when she has her Third Vision.” Debbie’s brow made viperine movements of its own. “On second thought, maybe I won’t be glad at all.”
The cowgirls half-laughed, half-grumbled. They seemed embarrassed by Delores’s rudeness, yet there was plenty of reason, considering the previous day’s behavior in the sexual reconditioning class, for Sissy to believe they shared their forewoman’s scorn for the industry she represented. Perhaps some re-evaluation was in order. For the moment, however, there was commotion on that ridge that to one sixteenth of her was supposed to be sacred.
“Uh, what’s happening up there?” asked Sissy, hoping that her voice did not tremble.
Kym answered. “Oh, it’s another bunch of salvation-seekers trying to see the Chink. He’s chasing them away, as usual. What a farce.”
“Shit,” swore Big Red. “It’s Debbie’s fault. Debbie wrote all her friends and told ’em there was this big boohoo livin’ up yonder, and the word just spread like hot butter. So’s now they come from as far away as Frisco expectin’ that old fart to tell ’em what’s what. Only he don’t ever tell nobody nothin’.”
170
tomrobbins
“He tells Jellybean a lot,” corrected Debbie.
“Maybe he does and maybe he don’t,” countered Big Red. “I ’spect Jelly’s just humoring him to keep him from causing us any trouble—and he’s doing the same with her.
Well, there they go! Look at your pilgrims hightailin’ it, Deb. Be gettin’ too cold for salvation pretty soon; maybe the old geek will get a few months’ peace. Not that he deserves it.”

Sissy wondered why Debbie thought the Chink to be some kind of grand boohoo to begin with. She asked about it.
“That’s a good question,” said Debbie, who was approximately as darling as Bonanza Jellybean, although, as were her companions, more conventionally attired.
“That’s a good question. You know, Sissy, every sage or holy man or spiritual leader or whatever you choose to call them does not go around preaching, writing books, gathering disciples or holding rallies in the Houston As-trodome. Some remain almost invisible among us. Swami Vivekananda once said that Buddha and Christ were second-rate heroes. He said the greatest men that ever live pass away unknown. They put forth no claims for themselves, establish no schools or systems in their name. They never create any stir but just melt down into love . . .”
“Love!” interrupted Big Red. “Grease is more like it.”
Debbie smiled patiently. “Vivekananda warned that the statesmen and generals and tycoons who seem so big to us are really low-level figures. He said, ‘The highest men are calm, silent and unknown.’ Isn’t that beautiful? The true masters seldom reveal themselves, except in the vibrations they leave behind, and upon which the lesser gurus build their doctrines. But there are ways to recognize them. The Chink, as he is called, seems a difficult person—he refuses to even snigger in my direction—but in his silence and mysterious manners he gives signs of . . .”
“Yeah, if you can call shakin’ his dick a sign,” interjected Big Red.
“. . . signs of high wisdom,” Debbie continued. “It was e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t
t h e b l u e s 171
wrong of me to write my former sisters and brothers in the League of the Acid Atom Avatar about him, even though many of them are desperate for illumination, I see that now. But I’m not wrong in my estimation of him, of that I’m sure.” She paused, rubbing her ringed fingers along the curves of a carved coral snake. “I’ve been meaning to ask you, Sissy: I understand that you’ve done more traveling than just about anybody. In your constant moving among the peoples, didn’t you ever come across a person whose wisdom stood out from the others, who seemed to have knowledge about the living of life that the rest of us

lack?”
The question was put seriously, so Sissy gave it thought. Oddly enough, she hadn’t really interacted with a great many people, nor even observed many carefully.
She had collected rides, not drivers. And as for pedestri-ans . . . shadows in the memory of a streak. However, there was that time in Mexico, not far south of the border.
Sissy had been hitchhiking down a road so dusty it could have strangled a camel. At one point the road passed the home workshop of a cabinetmaker. Fifteen or twenty pieces of newly carpentered furniture were lined up in the heat alongside the road. A man of indeterminate age was varnishing them. From a two-gallon can, the Mexican was carefully applying varnish with a brush. Whenever a car or truck went by, which was fairly frequently, thick clouds of dust roiled up, settling like Lawrence of Ara-bia’s memories upon the sticky furniture. But the Mexican went on with his work, smiling, singing to himself and paying no more attention to the dust than if it were a radio broadcast in a foreign language. So impressed had been Sissy that she nearly stopped to talk to the man; he let loose elaborate bright balloons in her heart. In the end, though, she had kept on hitching—subsequently thinking of the varnisher only in times of stress, frustration and self-doubt.
To speak of such things was embarrassing to Sissy, but she was about to tell Debbie of the marvelous Mexican 172
tomrobbins
when Jelly came trotting up on her horse. Jelly had been observing the Siwash Ridge ruckus from a closer perspective, ascertaining that it would have no repercussions upon the ranch. Now she called to the cowgirls, “Hey, podners, Delores is wanting you in the bunkhouse for drill. Let’s be hitting it.”
“Drill!” huffed Big Red. “I should have stayed in the goddamned Wacs.”
“This is a mistake,” said Debbie. “There are higher ways for women to deal with things.”
Some eagerly, some reluctantly, the cowgirls walked off toward the bunkhouse.

Jellybean dismounted.
“Aren’t they a great bunch of podners?” she asked.
Sissy nodded. “Where do they come from?” she inquired.
“Oh, East, West and the cuckoo’s nest. Lot of ’em grew up on farms and ranches and kinda liked the life, but when they got outta high school there was nothing for
’em to do but marry some local jerk or else try to get by in a college that wasn’t prepared to teach ’em anything they really wanted to know. A couple of ’em, like Kym and Debbie, came buckin’ out of middle-class suburbia. Big Red was the only working cowgirl in the lot; she’d ridden in barrel races all over Texas. ’Course Big Red is twenty-seven years old; the rest of us are a heap younger. Except for Delores. Nobody knows how old she is or what she was doing before she showed up here, but, God, she sure can rope and ride. I was after girls who wanted to be cowgirls and I never asked too many questions. Ones I tried to weed out were the ones that were in love with horses.
You know, the Freudian thing. Lot of parents, about the time their baby daughters start pushing out their sweaters in front, they buy ’em a horse to divert their attention from boys. What they really buy ’em is a thousand-pound organic vibrator. A horse is great for good clean hands-above-the-sheets masturbation, and some girls never outgrow the thrill of it. Those kind just don’t make real cowgirls.”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 173
Siwash Ridge had become as quiet and inanimate as the geology book that might describe its formation. Indian summer, the ham, was taking yet another curtain call, and the hills, warmed into an expansive mood, heaped bouquets of asters at its feet. Goldenrod, too. And butterfly weed. Giant sunflowers, like junkie scarecrows on the nod, dozed in one spot with their dry heads drooped upon their breastbones. Their lives extended another day, flies buzzed everything within their range, monotonously eulogizing themselves, like the patriots who persist in praising the glory of a culture long after it is decadent and doomed.

Eventually, Jelly spoke again. “You sure brought some cute weather with you. Looking around today, you’d never believe the snow and howling winds that are gonna slam this place in a month or two.”
“New York gets a long case of the won’t-quit shivers, too,” Sissy said. “I’ve never spent a whole winter in one place before, not since I was a kid.”
“One just has to snuggle up,” said Jelly, copping a glance at the bunkhouse. “Miss Adrian, when she first told me you were comin’ out here, she said that you’d been recently married.”
“About nine months ago.”
“Hmm. Yeah. I never figured that you’d be the type to marry and settle down.” “Nobody did,” said Sissy, sort of laughing. “Including me. But it’s all right.” “I’ve got this theory,” Jelly said. “Men—in general—
are turned on by women who are attached. It’s an ego challenge to break that attachment and transfer it to themselves. Women—in general—are turned on by men who are unattached. Freedom excites ’em. Unconsciously, they’re aching to end it.” She scanned Sissy’s face. “It would have been the opposite in your case, though. Or was it like that?”
“I don’t know. Maybe. I’ve never thought about it that way. You see, Jelly, I was alone for a long, long time. Few 174
tomrobbins
women are alone by choice—maybe that’s our major weakness—but upon the advice of nature I chose not to be boxed in or play it straight. Alone, I was able to shake to the big beat, dance the fourth dimension and make transportation talk out of its head. Only nobody cared.
Oh, Jack Kerouac and a dozen other desperate souls, maybe, had a whiff that I was something more than world’s champion, but nobody else. Well, so what? I did believe that my accomplishments might have lifted human spirits, the way that a comet fills people with joy for no logical or productive reason when it shoots across the sky.

If they had paid attention. They didn’t, and that’s okay, because I was really hitchhiking for myself. Myself and the great windy powers. Then, all of a sudden, there was somebody who needed me. For the first time in my life, I was needed. It was a powerful attraction.”
Jelly was scratching her horse’s ears. The animal was named Lucas, after Tad. “I guess men need wives, all right,” she said. “Just as women think that they need husbands.”
“Julian needed more than a wife,” said Sissy. “By most standards, I’m not even a very good wife. On a conscious level, Julian doesn’t appreciate or understand me a drop better than anyone else, but somewhere in him he knows he needs what only someone like me can offer. Julian is a Mohawk Indian who has been deformed by society. He denies being Mohawk, denies any possible physical or psychic benefit from it. He needs to be loved in a way that will put him in touch with his blood. And that’s the way I’m trying to love him.”
Taking her time, Jelly mounted. “That makes a certain amount of sense,” she said. “If love can’t re-create lovers, what good is it? But let me give you this caution, Sissy, my podner: Love is dope, not chicken soup.”
When Sissy continued to look puzzled, Jelly added, “I mean, love is something to be passed around freely, not spooned down someone’s throat for their own good by a Jewish mother who cooked it all by herself.”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 175
With that, Jelly swung down along Lucas’s side, in imitation of a stunt once performed at high speeds by the horse’s namesake, and kissed Sissy, half upon the mouth, half upon the chin. Then she righted herself and galloped away.
That afternoon, in the bunkhouse, when Gloria made a comparison between Sissy’s thumbs and the hunchback of Notre Dame, Bonanza Jellybean slapped her chops.

47.
“the polish sausage polka” was interrupted for a news bulletin about the international situation, which, as listeners in the bunkhouse soon learned, was desperate, as usual. Speaking of desperation, there was an expression of mild despair upon Big Red’s face as, without knocking, she opened the door of the main exercise room.
Guests and staff alike stiffened when Big Red entered, for all of them were a bit uneasy about cowgirls by then, and Big Red, the flaming tower of freckles, was the roughest-looking cowgirl on the spread. There was no cause for alarm, however. Big Red had overheard Miss Adrian announce that the final weigh-out was to be held this day. At the close of the day’s activities, guests were to assemble in the main exercise room for their last ride upon the Rubber Rose scales. The following day, at the low-cal barbecue that would mark the official end of the ranch’s season, prizes would be awarded those women who had squirted off the most poundage into the dry Dakota air. Big Red coveted no award, was not eligible for one and, frankly, deserved none, but she did wish to consult the scales. Wearing her one-piece forest green swimsuit, she took a place in line before the oracle. After easily obtaining the guests’ permission, Miss Adrian ushered Big Red to the head of the line.
176
tomrobbins
The hugest cowgirl weighed, winced, grunted and, to everyone’s relief, left as she had come. On the way back to the bunkhouse, Indian summer paying its respects to the flesh that bubbled out around the edges of her swimsuit, Big Red had a flash, a mental visitation perhaps no less intense than Delores del Ruby’s First and Second Visions.
Seized by inspiration, Big Red thought, “Wouldn’t it be dadburned wonderful if there was a machine that you could hook up to your plate of food that would extract the flavors from it. After you’d ate all your belly could comfortably hold,

you could stick a plastic tube in your mouth, switch on the little machine, and the flavors would continue to run into your mouth for as long as you pleased, without nothin’ goin’ into your belly to make it fuller and fatter. Mmm, Lord, Lord; ham gravy, cheese ’n onion pie, chili, rice puddin’, Lord.”
In the main exercise room of the Rubber Rose, there was an immediate market for such an apparatus, and, no doubt, sales around the world could be counted in tens of millions, the international situation notwithstanding. It would, moreover, constitute an unprecedented boon for mankind, keeping as many people off the streets as television and saving move lives than a cancer cure.
Therefore, in the public interest, Even Cowgirls Get the Blues offers the Big Red flavor device idea free of charge to any inventor who can make it a reality.

48.
“julian, i have a friend.”
“A friend you say, dear?” It was a barely tolerable connection. “That’s good. New friends are fun.”
“You don’t understand. I have a girl friend. I’ve never had a girl friend before.”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 177
“Oh, now, honey, you exaggerate. Isn’t Marie your friend?”
“Marie is your friend. She’s only interested in me as an exotic cunt.” “Sissy! We’re on the telephone!”
“Sorry. I just wanted to tell you about Jelly, but never mind.”
“Jelly is that troublemaker you’re supposed to be keeping an eye on for the Countess, isn’t she? How’s it going with those cowgirls? I hope everything is smooth out there. I worry about you constantly.”
“No need to worry about me, ever. I carry my guardian angels around on my hands.”
“Sissy, you mustn’t mock yourself like that; it isn’t healthy. Well, now, dear, my concern for you hasn’t totally prevented me from enjoying myself. Numerous eat-abouts. Elaine’s, La Grenouille, La Caravelle. Dancing Friday night at Kenny’s Castaways with the Wrights and the Sabols. Howard was working late so Marie came with what’s-his-name, Colacello. Cheek-to-cheek dancing is the rage in New York these days. I hadn’t realized. I hope you’ll go with me after you return. You’d love it if you’d give it a chance. A few people are coming here for a kitchen supper this evening. Cozy. I’m setting up a backgammon table. Wish you were here. Oh, I bought an enchanting doll at the Brooklyn Museum gift shop today—folk art.

Wait until you see it. I’m almost finished with the painting I started the day before you left, the big one you thought was going to be a wigwam. It’s nothing of the sort of course; it’s . . .”
“Julian, what’s that noise?”
“Noise? Oh, that. That’s a surprise, dear. That’s . . .
Can’t you guess? That’s Butty. Carla and Rupert are together again. God, yes, I meant to tell you. Carla moved back into town and she can’t keep Butty in their flat. So the old boy is here again. If you mind, I can always sell him. Dogs such as Butty are the rage in New York now; all the trend-benders own at least two. Andy Warhol 178
tomrobbins
brought his miniature dachshund, Archie, to Kenny’s Castaways the other night. Imagine. Now, Sissy, about those cowgirls you’re running with, watch your step, will you?”
The long-distance wires made those sounds that are part gurgle, part bleep; the sounds a baby robot might make in its crib. Endearments were exchanged and Julian hung up—without a clue that the call he had terminated had been made possible by Bonanza Jellybean, who, as an act of friendship, had postponed snipping the Rubber Rose telephone lines.

49.
if we may say that the civilized man is clever but not wise, we may say, also, that the prairie is dry but not without water. Upon the prairie there are occasional rivers, streams, lakes, ponds and flooded buffalo wallows. Like the American System itself, most of the prairie ponds and lakes are fly-by-night operations. Although they may thrive temporarily, supporting a teeming food chain that can run from aquatic plants to muskrats to owls; from nymphal insects to sunfish to snapping turtles; or from salamanders to magpies to weasels, in time the ponds and lakes are invaded by vegetation, filled with silt and reduced during summer droughts until they gasp (!) and die, changing into marsh and then prairie again. Often a prairie pond is not around long enough to earn a name.
Siwash Lake, since it found a home in a relatively deep depression between the hills of the terminal moraines left by the continental ice sheet, has enjoyed a certain permanence, although as evidenced by its imploding margins of arrowhead, cattail and reed, it, too, is entering the swamp e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 179
phase of its existence and eventually will be unable to provide enough moisture to freshen a tadpole’s highball.
There are a few good years left on the little lake yet, however, and it was shimmering like a blob of invisible ink when Sissy and Jelly caught sight of it from the hill behind the cinematographer’s blind. Sissy and Jelly walked over the crest of the hill, having tied their horses at the cherry tree, and there was the lake, laking. Knee-deep in wheatgrass and asters, Sissy and Jelly walked over the crest of the hill naked, having left their clothing at the cherry tree, and the lake was below them, shimmering.
Sissy and Jelly walked over the crest of the hill naked, for the sunning that was in it, and it was truly difficult to believe, as they gazed at Siwash Lake, that they, too, Sissy and Jelly, were mostly water. (The brain, with its fragmen-tary and elusive qualities, yes, water; but body meat?) Since the hidden cameras were trained on the lakeshore, they could not record the images that moved at the crest of the hill, nor could the concealed microphones steal conversation. Sissy and Jelly were talking when they walked over the crest, and after they had studied

the lake for a while, they sat and talked again.
“She was living in Louisiana, in a shack town built by runaway slaves deep in the bayous. That’s one story, anyway. I’ve also heard that she was traveling through Yucatán with a circus, popping false eyelashes off a trained monkey with a bullwhip. It doesn’t matter. Wherever it was that she was, she ate peyote one night and had a vision. Niwetúkame, the Mother Goddess, came to her on the back of a doe, hummingbirds sipping the tears she was shedding, crying ‘Delores, you must lead my daughters against their natural enemy.’ Delores thought about it for a long time—it was one hell of a vivid vision—until she determined that the natural enemy of the daughters were the fathers and the sons. That night she whipped the shit out of her black lover, or the circus owner—it doesn’t matter which—and ran away. For a while she drove around, 180
tomrobbins
making a living selling peyote buttons to hippies. Then, Niwetúkame came to her again, saying that she must go to a certain place and prepare for her mission, the details of which would be revealed to her in another vision. The place the Peyote Mother directed her to come was the Rubber Rose Ranch. Isn’t that incredible? She zonks out on peyote at least once a week, but so far her Third Vision hasn’t happened. Meanwhile, she and Debbie are rivaling each other like a couple of crosstown high schools. Tension. Cowgirl tension! What a drag.”
“What is Debbie’s position?” Sissy asked. A breeze swatted her ribcage with grassheads.
“Well, as I understand it, Debbie feels that people have a tendency to become what they hate. She says that women who hate men turn into men. Eee! That grass tickles, doesn’t it?” Jelly was being swatted, too. “Debbie says that women are different from men and that that difference is the source of their strength. Way back before Judaism and Christianity, women were in charge of everything, government, economics, family, agriculture and especially religion; both Debbie and Delores agree on that. But Debbie says that if women are to take charge again, they must do it in the feminine way; they mustn’t resort to aggressive and violent masculine methods. She says it is up to women to show themselves better than men, to love men, set good examples for them and guide them tenderly toward the New Age. She’s a real dreamer, that Debbie-dear.”

“You don’t agree with Debbie, then?”
“I wouldn’t say that. I expect she’s right, ultimately. But I’m with Delores when it comes to fighting for what’s mine. I can’t understand why Delores is so uptight about the Chink; he could probably teach her a thing or two. Or how can anybody dislike Billy West, that good ol’ rascal?
God knows I love women, but nothing can take the place of a man that fits. Still, this here is cowgirl territory and I’ll stand with Delores and fight any bastards who might deny it. I guess I’ve always been a scrapper. Look. This e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 181
scar. Only twelve years old and I was felled by a silver bullet.”
Jelly took Sissy’s hand, carefully avoiding its first or most preaxial digit, and helped her to feel the depression in her belly. It was as if she had bought her navel at a two-for-one sale.
Ignoring the possibilities that she had piqued Sissy’s curiosity or lit up her limbic switchboard, Jelly continued to speak. “God, I dig it out here. This raw space. Nobody has ever nailed it down. It’s too big and too tough. Men saw it as a challenge; they wanted to compete against it, to conquer it. For the most part they failed, and now they hate it. But women can regard it in a different way. We can flow with it, merge with it and love it. The Chink says that these plains exist on the edge of meaning, at a zone between meaning and something so great it’s got no meaning. I think I understand. Why any cowgirl wouldn’t be content with this I don’t know, but I reckon some people just can’t have fun unless everyone else is having fun, too.”
Sissy kept her hand on jelly’s tummy, for as soon as the cowgirl quit talking she wished to inquire how she happened to catch a silver bullet in such a tender spot at such a tender age. Before she had a second to ask, however, Jelly lobbed a question of her own. “Say, Sissy, you working for the Countess and all, I wonder if you’ve had a chance to try the perfume trick we told the guests about the other day?”
“Er, well, no, I haven’t. It actually works, does it?” “Sure it works. Why don’t you try it?”

“You mean now?”
She meant now, Sissy. N for narcissus, N for nasty, N for nigi ( Nigi is Japanese for “rainbow.” It also means
“two o’clock.” Thus, in Japan there are at least two rainbows daily); O for orchid, O for odoriferous, O for om (The meditation mat is the yogi’s horse; git along little yogi, gotta reach El Snuffing Out Candle before sun- downownownownownownownownownownownown 182
tomrobbins
owown . . . Only mantra west of the Pecos); W for wiste-ria, W for wet, W for Walla Walla (a city in eastern Washington), Wagga Wagga (a city in southeastern Australia) and Wooga Wooga (a café in the astral dimension where Charlie Parker jams every Saturday night): N*O*W, Now. She wanted to watch you spread it, Sissy, opening like a ballet slipper, a gaping shellfish. She wanted to spread it, Sissy, her petite fingers wading in the swamp of it, raising its temperature, widening its smile. Oh why is it so difficult between women? Between a man and a woman it’s yes or no. Between women it’s always maybe.
One mistake and the other runs away. Even when women embrace they must keep their hearts still, eyes blank.
Words are out of the question. But it’s worth it, Sissy, worth the pretensions, interruptions and caution. When a man is in you, you cannot imagine what it is his body is feeling, nor can he know your pleasures accurately. Between women, each is precisely aware: when she does that she is certain that the other is feeling this. And it’s so soft, Sissy. So soft.
Krishna, or as he is called in the West, Pan, the god Jesus Christ drove into hiding, was the only god who understood women. Krishna/Pan lured maidens into the woods, but he never raped, nor did he seduce with false promises or insincere declarations of love. He awakened them with special ancient vaudeville; he turned them on. It is that way that women visit each other: as music, as clowns.
Woman has not suffered civilization gladly. It has been suggested, in fact, that all of civilization was merely a dike thrown up by men, fearful of sexual

competition, in order
“to hold back wild and unruly feminine waters.” Now, however, She may be commandeering the shining inventions of civilized man and turning them to Her own dark uses. For example, kissing.
Kissing is man’s greatest invention.
All animals copulate, but only humans kiss.
Kissing is the supreme achievement of the Western world.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 183
Orientals, including those who tended the North American continent before the ravagement, rubbed noses, and thousands still do. Yet despite the golden fruit of their millennia—they gave us yoga and gunpowder, Buddha and corn on the cob —they, their multitudes, their saints and sages, never produced a kiss.
The greatest discovery of civilized man is kissing.
Primitives, pygmies, cannibals and savages have shown tenderness to one another in many tactile ways, but pucker against pucker has not been their style.
Parakeets rub beaks. Yes, it’s true, they do. However, only devotees of premature ejaculation, or those little old ladies who murder children with knitting needles to steal their lunch money to buy fresh kidneys for kittycats could place bird-billing in the realm of the kiss.
Black Africans touch lips. Quite right; some of them do, as do certain aboriginal tribesmen in other parts of the world—but though their lips may touch, they do not linger. The peck is a square wheel, awkward and slightly ominous. What else did Judas betray Our Savior with but a peck: terse, spit-free and tongueless?
Tradition informs us that kissing, as we know it, was invented by medieval knights for the utilitarian purpose of determining whether their wives had been into the mead barrel while the knights were away on duty. If history is correct, for once, then the kiss began as an oscula-tory wiretap, an oral snoop, a kind of

alcoholic chastity belt, after the fact. Form does not always follow function, however, and eventually kissing for kissing’s sake became popular in the courts, spreading to the tradesmen, peas-ants and serfs. And why not? For kissing is sweet. It was as if all the atavistic sweetness still remaining in Western man was funneled into kissing and that alone. No other flesh like lip flesh! No meat like mouth meat! The musical clink of tooth against tooth, the wonderful curiosity of tongues.
If women took short delight in lesser inventions, such as the wheel, the lever and the blade of steel, they ap-184
tomrobbins
plauded kissing, practicing it upon their men, for fun and profit, and upon each other—within limits. Because they were designed to suckle both male and female child at their breasts, women are not as sexually restrictive as men.
They have always been prone to kiss other women, a practice that has made our Faith uneasy and our smut-sniffers pale. In 1899, even so relatively liberal a Victorian as Dr. Mary Wood-Allen felt compelled to write, in What a Young Woman Ought to Know, “I wish the friendships of girls were more manly. Two young men who are friends do not lop on each other, and kiss and gush. Girlish friendships that include fondling and kissing are not only silly, they are even dangerous.”
who will sing the praises of silly and dangerous kissing? She feared to fondle your secret parts, Sissy, and you feared to fondle them in front of her. But your mouths were bold—and silly and dangerous—and you leaned toward one another slowly, sliding cheeks, and kissed. Meeting with a passing bee’s pulsation, you mashed your mouths flat until soon your tongues were entangled in bubbles and breaths. Long, thick tongues painted each other with tongue stuff; painting away gradually the feminine fears so that you could extract your fingers from her sterling scar and slide them down her belly. When the hair and juice whispered against your fingertips—whispered dirty words such as “pussy,” “cunt,” and “snatch”—you thought of Marie, always grabbing you there, and you almost pulled away. But jelly moaned in your mouth, flood-ing it with sweetness, and in a moment her own hand was exploring the hot folds of your vulva.

Embraced, you toppled over in the wheatgrass. Her Stetson fell off and rolled away in the direction of Oklahoma City. Maybe it wanted to say howdy to Tad Lucas.
Your eyes sent an archeological expedition to Jelly’s face, and hers to yours; both unearthed inscriptions and pondered their meaning. She whispered that you were beautiful and brave. She called you a “hero,” meaning heroine, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 185
but her fingers were not fooled for an instant. You tried to tell her how much her friendship meant to you. Did you get the words out or didn’t you? Teeth of foam, lips of pie.
After a hungry stillness, like intermission at a wolf dance, rhythms were established. You were socked into one another now, it had been acknowledged and approved, and so you arched and pushed and corkscrewed and jack-knifed, softly but with pronounced cadence. Finger-fucking is an art. Men indulge in it; women excel at it.
Ohh. Fireman save my child!
You felt as if your hand were up a jukebox, a flesh Wurlitzer spewing colored electrical sparks as it played itself to pieces on the Dime of the Century. Your clitoris was a switch without an “off.” She snapped it on on on and further on. You crooked your tongue around an erect nipple. She smiled at your quiverings when she parted your asshole.
Everything became scrambled. You rocked each other in cradles of sweat and saliva, until you could see nothing.
You imagined her in a bride’s trousseau, pictured her a mare. Did you ferment, the two of you? You smelled like it. Fans of funk and fever opened and closed, chins were aglisten with the juice of kissing. You rocked and rocked, your thumb swacking her belly in rhythm, adding to the excitement—hers and yours.
Eyes closed, or maybe only glazed, you pictured her tight young whatdoyoucallit in your mind. Hair by dripping hair, it gaped before you. Your own clitoris felt as swollen pink as a bubblegum cigar. Oh these things were made to be loved!
Suddenly, you were weeping. Noisy breaths bucked out of you. You called

“Jelly Jelly” when you intended only to murmur “mmmm.” It didn’t matter. Jellybean couldn’t hear you. She was screaming. Hysterical from the scalding hot softness of girl-love.
Criminey, how that filly can come, you thought, after your own spasms had subsided. At the same moment, 186
tomrobbins
Jelly was wondering how a city apartment house could possibly contain your sex cries. For Jelly, too, was at rest.
Only gradually did you both realize that a third auditory ingredient had mixed with Jelly screams and Sissy groans—a brasher, wilder sound, though obviously the work of the same composer.
Sticky fingers were pulled from melons. Soaked inside and out, the two of you sat up. There came that noise again, only louder, more eerie. Had your hairs, short and long, not been so damp they might have stood. It was a mighty trumpeting, a whoop such as the World might have made on the day it was born.
It was then that you ladies, your rosy bodies imprinted with patterns of crushed leaves and stems, looked to see a squadron of white satin airliners circling Siwash Lake, a flock of birds so grand and giant and elegant that your hearts squeezed out eternity’s toothpaste.

50.
describe the whooping crane ( Grus americana) in twenty-five words or less. The whooping crane is a very large and very regal white bird with long black
legs, a sinuous neck and a thrilling trumpetlike voice.
Okay. I’ll grade that a C.
Only a C? May I try again?
Go ahead.
The most spectacular of our native wading birds, the whooping crane stands about five feet tall and has a wing-spread of nearly eight.
No improvement, I’m afraid. Still a C. One more try?
Be my guest.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 187
Imagine Wilt Chamberlain in red yarmulke and snowy feathers . . .
Hold it. You’re assuming that the reader knows who Wilt Chamberlain is. Many people don’t follow basket-ball and wouldn’t understand that Wilt signifies size and strength and arrogance made palatable by grace.
I give up. The whooper enters one’s spirit the instant it enters one’s senses. It is perfect radiant sky monster and I cannot describe it.
Better. Make that a B.

51.
“paiute indians called the crane kodudududududu,” said Sissy. “Isn’t that a funny name?”
Jellybean was delighted. “Say it again,” she urged. “Kodudududududu. Six dus. Kodudududududu.” They both laughed.
“You know a lot about Indians, don’t you?” asked Jelly. She brushed dead cherry leaves from her panties before stepping in.
“A little,” said Sissy. She was slower getting into her undies because of her thumbs.
“And birds, too. I can’t get over the way they let you walk up so close to ’em. Whoopers are supposed to be really skittish. ’Specially when they’re migrating.”
“Maybe they’ve never seen a human being nude before.
We’re different when we’re naked. But I do have a way with birds, I guess. I told you about Boy, only parakeet to ever flag down a Diesel rig.” Sissy looked at Jelly’s popover tits as they disappeared into glossy shirt of cactus sunset design. In the looking, her blue gaze grew solemn. “I understand a tad about Indians and birds,” she said softly, “but I don’t know if I understand what happened up there.”
188
tomrobbins
Jelly’s eyes snagged Sissy’s, elevated them. “Something nice happened up there.”

“Yes,” admitted Sissy. “It was nice.”
“Do you feel bad about it?”
“No, oh no. I don’t feel bad. I feel . . . different. Or maybe I don’t feel different; maybe I feel like I should feel different.” She was thoughtful. She zipped up. “Have you had sex with girls much before?”
“Only since I’ve been at the Rubber Rose. Between Miss Adrian and Delores, every eligible male’s been scared away from here, and there’s usually trouble of one kind or another if we fool around with the hicks in Mottburg. That leaves your fingers or other women, and at least half the cowgirls on the ranch have been in each other’s pants by now. There’s not a queer among ’em, either. It’s just a nice, natural thing to do. Girls are so close and soft. Why did it take me all these years to learn that it’s okay to roll around with ’em? It’s ’specially good when it’s somebody you really like a lot.” She hugged Sissy and sugar-doodled a few kisses around her neck and ears.
A pair of smiles rode across the Dakota hills.
Perhaps a person gains by accumulating obstacles. The more obstacles set up to prevent happiness from appear-ing, the greater the shock when it does appear, just as the rebound of a spring will be all the more powerful the greater the pressure that has been exerted to compress it.
Care must be taken, however, to select large obstacles, for only those of sufficient scope and scale have the capacity to lift us out of context and force life to appear in an entirely new and unexpected light. For example, should you litter the floor and tabletops of your room with small objects, they constitute little more than a nuisance, an inconvenient clutter that frustrates you and leaves you irritable: the petty is mean. Cursing, you step around the objects, pick them up, knock them aside. Should you, on the other hand, encounter in your room a nine- thousand-pound e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 189
granite boulder, the surprise it evokes, the extreme steps that must be taken to deal with it, compel you to see with new eyes. And if the boulder is more special, if it has been painted or carved in some mysterious way, you may find that it possesses an extraordinary and supernatural presence that enchants you, and in coping with it—as it blocks your path to the bathroom—leaves you feeling extraordinary and supernatural, too. Difficulties illuminate existence, but

they must be fresh and of high quality.
To the obstacles that had conspired to prevent Sissy Hankshaw Gitche, white female Protestant of South Richmond, Virginia, from attaining normality, from filling a responsible and orderly role, from operating as a productive, well- adjusted contributor to the human community, now must be added friendship with Bonanza Jellybean. Whether this latest obstacle was to elevate Sissy or nudge her toward the breaking place, as a certain straw is reported to have done to a certain burdened camel, was impossible to judge from her smile, for it was simultaneously gladdened and apprehensive. It is of little or no value to analyze mental states such as this. The kingdom of formal ideas will always be a weak neighbor to the kingdom of thrills, and Sissy was a princess of thrill.
Blood bunched in her head like grapes in a wig. It sang there like a popular ballad—even though the only radio station in the area played nothing but polkas. Jelly had promised to come to her room that night, with marijuana and new positions. If those prospects excited her, she was also excited by the memory of the whooping cranes, a sight all the more breathtaking because of the knowledge that those huge, elegant fugitives were so few in number and perched so precariously on the brink of total extinction. No heat, no agony, no bloody struggle, but a band of exquisite creatures (for which the world has no replacement) poised coolly—defiantly!—on the winking eyelid of doom.
Perhaps crane and cowgirl merged in her mind into a 190 tomrobbins
single bright-eyed beaky goblin of love. If so, it took flight when she and Jelly rode up to the corral. Delores and Big Red hurried to meet them. “He’s here,” announced Delores, pointing with her whip.
Sure enough, across the yard, in the midst of the lowcal barbecue then in progress, monocle reflecting sunlight, cigarette holder stabbing air, stood the Countess. Except for stains of White House ketchup on his ascot, he looked the same as ever, and why shouldn’t he, for only a couple of weeks had passed since Sissy last saw him, although it seemed like years.
“Look at him,” hissed Delores. “Perverse as a pink pickle.” “Sick as a vice squad,” elaborated Big Red.

“He’s in a snit,” Delores said. “He wants to see you right after the barbecue.”
Jellybean chuckled sardonically. She dismounted. “Get the girls,” she said. “He’s gonna see me right now.”
Left abruptly in the corral with a horse she could not unsaddle, Sissy was alarmed. Obviously, a confrontation was brewing, and she wished no part of it. How many years had the Countess been her benefactor? Many. If not for him, she probably could not have survived. When she caught sight of him, her impulse had been to rush up in fond greeting. Yet she didn’t dare. Confused and double-confused, loyalties torn, guilt rising, she abandoned the horse and made her way as stealthily as she could to the rear of the main house, stumbling only momentarily over the chain of the goat.
She slipped inside through the kitchen, where sacks of Debbie-ordered brown rice sat with Oriental asceticism, stoically ignoring the smells of roasting veal that wafted in from the party. She loped down the hall, entered her room, locked herself in. As the latch was turning, she overheard Jelly say something like, “Any of you ladies who would like to join us, you’re welcome to stay on as a full working podner at the Rubber Rose. Rest of you get e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 191
packed—and I mean now. You’ve got fifteen minutes to move your lard asses off this ranch.”
There were loud gasps, panicky murmurings and barbecued blubberings. The screen door screeched open and Sissy heard a chaos of footsteps in the hall.
From her window, Sissy could see and hear Miss Adrian screaming threats of prison and other punishments at the cowgirls. The Countess, on the other hand, appeared to be taking the incident in his snide. He stood calmly, reducing the material existence of a French cigarette, and observed Jellybean and sisters with an expression of sarcastic amusement. “You pathetic little cutesy-poos,” he seemed to say.
“Do you actually suppose this exhibition of childish melodrama is advancing the cause of freedom?”
“You owe us this here ranch, as token payment for your disgusting exploitations,” said Jelly.

“Then take it,” the Countess said tranquilly.
Perhaps he meant it as compliance, but the cowgirls regarded his statement a challenge.
Jelly shouted a command. The hands, who carried axes, picks, pitchforks and shovels, retreated. The Countess, still grinning, reached for an hors d’oeuvre and subjected his cigarette to a measured, self-assured puff. Miss Adrian shook her fist and yelled, “Go to your bunkhouse and remain there!” as if she had just led a rout. The guests were in their rooms packing, save for one lady who had tossed her cup of punch at Miss Adrian and joined the revolution. The masseuse had joined, too, and she egged on the rest of the staff members, who stood off to one side of the barbecue pit, hoping to appear neutral.
When they had retreated about thirty yards, the cowgirls stopped. With astonishing rapidity, they unbuckled, unbuttoned and unzipped—and stepped out of their jeans and underpants. Then, nude from the waist down, thatched pubises thrust forward, up front and leading the way, they began to advance. The Countess’s grin went down his throat like bathwater down a drain.
192
tomrobbins
“Better reach for your spray cans!” taunted Gloria. “Not one of these pussies has been washed in a week!” yelled Jellybean.
Rather pale now, his nose twitching, the Countess dropped the caviar canapé he’d been holding. A prairie ant helped itself to the spoils, the first ant in the history of the Dakotas to make off with a gobule of Iranian caviar.
He or she’ll go down in the Ant Hall of Fame.
On came the cowpokes, while behind them, in rows, fifteen separate little piles of jeans and panties bowed low to the ground, like a pilgrimage of rag Muslims

prostrat-ing themselves to the Mecca of duds. On came the cowpokes, pelvises pumping, laying down what the trembling Countess believed to be a devastating barrage of musk.
Lost in her own hysteria, Miss Adrian charged. A barbecue fork she hurled drew blood from Heather’s eyebrow. Quick as a frog’s tongue, Delores’s whip cracked.
Its lash curled around the ranch manager’s ankles, pulling her feet from under her. She hit the sod in a jangle of jew-elry and an explusion of breath. Then the rampage began.
A Molotov cocktail said good-by to Big Red, hello to the sexual reconditioning building. Within minutes, the structure was blazing. Other cowgirls, bare asses flashing, stormed the wing of the main house where the beauty parlor and exercise rooms were located. Sounds of glass breaking and wood splintering echoed through the house.
The air was singed with cries of “Wahoo,” “Yippee,” “Let ’er buck” and “The vagina is a self-cleaning organ.”
Sissy hadn’t a clue what to do. Her darling Jellybean had obviously forgotten her. The Countess would be furious with her for failing to warn him of the impending revolt. Julian would not be pleased, either. And for all she knew, she might be in physical peril. Delores and her pals did identify her with the Countess’s business. The sauna was burning now and the ranch was swirled in smoke.
Acting on orders from that very large portion of the brain that is completely uninterested in anything but survival, Sissy fled the house by the way she had entered.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 193
Crossing the croquet court, passing the pool, she ran to the base of Siwash Ridge and then southward along the mountain’s foot. Eventually she came to a place where the juniper bushes were broken to reveal a crude path beginning a steep

ascent. Because the butte promised both protection and a view of the proceedings, Sissy elected to climb.
She shouldered her way through low, silvery boughs.
The trail was acting funny. It would switch back where there was no reason for it to switch or it would head straight for the edge of the cliff, only to turn aside at the last possible inch and bob up and down as if it were laughing. It seemed to have a mind of its own. A deranged mind, at that.
Sissy walked lightly but firmly, as if she were trying to calm the trail down, as if she were giving it therapy. It did not respond.
Sweating, panting, startled by rabbits and magpies, she accepted the first opportunity—approximately halfway up the ridge and twenty minutes’ climb— to rest on a flat rock, from which she might look down upon the Rubber Rose. The ranch was farther away than even the decep-tions of the trail had led her to imagine.
The whoopjamboreehoo was still raging. Noise and smoke. The main house had been spared the torch, but several of the outbuildings were in ashes. She thought she could detect cowgirls attempting to quiet horses that had panicked in the corrals. She did see Miss Adrian’s Cadillac roar out of the drive, but she had no way of telling what passengers it bore. Somewhat later, the cinematographers’
rented convertible and their equipment van also drove away. Had the filmmakers been evicted or had others commandeered their vehicles? Sissy sat and wondered.
She also wondered if and when she should return to the ranch. The sun was already kneeling on the doorsill of the West, and as night approached she could feel cold scratch-ings on her flesh.
After a while she felt something else. Eyes, she felt.
Eyes watching her. Not little pink rabbit eyes or jumpy 194
tomrobbins
bright bird eyes. Big carnivorous eyes. A wildcat or wolf, for sure. Again, that

vast battery of efficient brainpower, insensitive to beauty, romance, fun or freedom; suspicious and careful, as conventional as eggs-for-breakfast, as cheer- less as a banker’s socks; that stiff-collared DNA fogy who happens to be the major stockholder in human consciousness, issued orders. Obeying, for no commands are as difficult as these to disobey, Sissy picked up a stone and turned around slowly.
“Ha ha ho ho and hee hee,” snickered the thing that was watching her. It stood ten yards away. It was, of course, the Chink.
The Chink’s problem was that he looked like the Little Man who had the Big Answers. Flowing white hair and a dirty bathrobe, weathered face and handmade sandals, teeth that would make an accordion jealous, eyes that twinkled like bicycle lights in a mist. He was short but muscular, aged but handsome and O the smoky aroma of his immortal beard! He looked as if he had stolen down from the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel, by way of a Yoko-hama opium parlor. He looked as if he could talk with animals, discussing with them subjects Dr. Dolittle wouldn’t comprehend. He looked as if he had rolled out of a Zen scroll, as if he said “presto” a lot, knew the meaning of lightning and the origin of dreams. He looked as if he drank dew and fucked snakes. He looked like the cape that rustles on the backstairs of Paradise.
They scrutinized one another with mutual fascination.
Sissy held her breath and the Chink said, “Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.”
At last she thought of something to say, but, as if he sensed that she was about to speak and did not want her words in his strangely pointed ears, he whirled, and scampered up the mountainside whence he had come.
“Wait!” she cried.
Warily, he stopped and turned, poised to flee again. Sissy smiled.
She raised her ripe right thumb.

e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 195
And jerking it and swooshing it and wringing every flicker from it, as though this were its farewell performance and it must please the gods, she hitchhiked the hermit and his mountain.
And got a ride to the clockworks.
PA RT
 
IV
I am not of your race. I belong to the Mongol clan which brought to the world a monstrous truth: the authenticity of life and the knowledge of rhythm . . . You do well to hem me in with the hundred thousand bayonets of Western enlightenment, for woe unto you if I leave the dark of my cave and set about in earnest to chase off your clamor-ings.
—Blaise Cendrars

52.
for christmas that year, Julian gave Sissy a miniature Tyrolean village. The craftsmanship was remarkable.
There was a tiny cathedral whose stained-glass windows made fruit salad of sunlight. There was a plaza and ein Biergarten. The Biergarten got quite noisy on Saturday nights. There was a bakery that smelled always of hot bread and strudel. There was a town hall and a police station, with cutaway sections that revealed standard amounts of red tape and corruption. There were little Tyroleans in leather britches, intricately stitched, and, beneath the britches, genitalia of equally fine workmanship. There were ski shops and many other interesting things, including an orphanage. The orphanage was designed to catch fire and burn down every Christmas Eve. Orphans would dash into the snow with their nightgowns blazing. Terrible. Around the second week of January, a fire inspector would come and poke through the ruins, muttering, “If they had only listened to me, those children would be alive today.”
It was a fascinating gift and not inexpensive, but Sissy might have known there was a catch to it.
200
tomrobbins
Julian couldn’t keep to himself very long the information that the village had been made by a young man who had had both arms amputated after a tricycle accident at age three. He had made the village with his toes. Moreover, the fellow was in trade school, studying to be a pastry cook. In another year, he would be decorating cakes.
Naturally, this was supposed to be inspirational to Sissy.
Julian even arranged for Sissy to meet the student chef, whose name was Norman. He left the disabled pair alone in a coffee shop, where they might speak heart to heart for half an hour. When Julian returned, he found that Sissy had

talked Norman into carving a Tyrolean with enlarged thumbs to hitchhike up and down the streets of her village.

53.
the christmas holidays were mellow and cozy for the Gitches, after a rather tempestuous autumn.
Sissy had returned to New York on October 8, to face an angry, anxious husband and an incredulous Countess.
Where had she been; why hadn’t she telephoned; had she aided and abetted the Rubber Rose coup d’état and so forth. She was Perry Masoned from pillar to post, and Franz Krafkaed, too. Only when she threatened to leave again did the interviews finally cease.
For the Countess’s part, his attitude toward the revolt on his ranch was ambivalent. One day he would curse the cowgirls as the most disgusting cat pack of female filth to ever gag a decent nostril, and the next day he would reiterate how much he admired women who could make their way without men and would wish them luck. He’d lost interest in the ranch, he said. Now that he had friends in the White House, the taxes the Rubber Rose saved him were a e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 201
drop in the bucket; he could save more with a single phone call.
“That ranch is anal excruciation,” the Countess complained, his dentures working over his ivory cigarette holder like a chiropractor realigning the spine of a Chihuahua. “When the market improves, I’m going to sell it.
Then we’ll watch how the new owners handle those little primitives. Say, are you certain the old fleabag who lives on the butte had nothing to do with all this?”
The Countess was never quite satisfied with Sissy’s explanations, but he grew quickly bored with making an issue of it. He scrapped his plans for a whooping crane TV
commercial and threw himself into new projects.
Julian, on the other hand, had to be forced to muzzle his interrogations and even

then his soft brown eyes narrowed harshly at the most innocent and irrelevant references to Sissy’s Rubber Rose assignment. He turned off the radio once when the deejay announced a song by Dakota Staton.
Actually, Sissy would have appreciated someone with whom to talk about Jellybean and the Chink—but there was no one she felt she could turn to. Julian, certainly, would not have been a good listener. As it was, he spent a great deal of time, even at his easel, wondering about the changes that had come over his wife, wondering about their origin, whether they were for better or worse. Before her trip West, Sissy had been an ardent lover but a reluctant student. Upon her return, however, she exhibited wolfish intellectual appetites for Julian’s discourses upon history, philosophy, politics and the arts, but her responses between the sheets seemed no more than perfunctory. Had the Yale man gained a brain and lost a vagina?
And was the Indian happy about it?
As mentioned, the cheer of Christmas brought an end to their discord. One day, while shopping in East Village boutiques, Sissy snapped out of the stupor she’d been in for weeks. Between second and third fingers, she held a sprig of mistletoe over Julian’s head and kissed him right on the street. She hummed a carol on the way home.
202
tomrobbins
Through the holidays, she was gay and bright, with only an occasional far-away look in her eyes.
Then, on December 31, a few hours before the Gitches were to join the Barths for New Year’s Eve at Kenny’s Castaways, the news broke that several hospitals in both America and Denmark had been privately following a policy of letting deformed babies die. On the CBS Evening News, one doctor was heard to say, “If a baby is too deformed to be loved, then its life is going to be hell.
Death is mercy for the unlovable.” The disclosure slammed Sissy into a dungeon of depression, from which she did not begin to emerge until sometime in

February, when she came across by chance an item in the Times.
manila, Philippines (AP)—A Manila newspaper reported yesterday the birth of a
boy with six fingers on each hand and six toes on each foot.
“This will bring good luck to the family,” said the infant’s elated mother.

54.
alternately skipping and staggering, an overwhelmed Sissy had come down the Siwash Trail after three days at the clockworks. She found a work party of cowgirls, headed by Delores, removing hair dryers and Exer-cycles from the damaged wing of the main house while a second party, led by Big Red, was busily renovating the old ranch privy. Bonanza Jellybean was nowhere to be seen. Kym disclosed that Jelly and Debbie had hauled a couple of sacks of brown rice out to Siwash Lake in the chuck wagon. They were going to feed the whoopers, who were there now in full strength, and see if the birds couldn’t be enticed to extend their usual stay on the ranch.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 203
The cinematographers were no longer at the pond.
They had gone off to the Pacific Northwest to shoot a new Walt Disney family feature, The Living Mud Puddle.
They would be spending a lot of time poking their wide-angle lenses under wet rocks.
Sissy debated waiting for the boss cowgirl’s return. She packed slowly, but when the rucksack had been snapped shut there was still no Jellybean. Kym suggested that maybe Jelly and Debbie had stopped to “roll around.”
That settled it. Sissy shouldered her rucksack and trudged away. She had walked no more than three miles when the goat-chawed Cadillac limousine—which, as it turned out, was registered to the Rubber Rose—pulled up alongside her. Kym leaned out the driver’s window. “Well,” she called. “Aren’t you gonna hitchhike me?”
Kym, who had defied Delores in order to give Sissy a ride, dropped her off at the main highway. She hugged her. “You’re always welcome,” she said. Over the cowgirl’s shoulder miles of wheatgrass shimmered like the brushed hairs of a gopi. Violet hills and burnt umber buttes rested in their still American places like

novels on Zane Grey’s bookshelf. The sun, which in those parts appears as a half-breed—its father a prairie fire and its mother a wolf bite—shampooed Siwash Ridge in blood, so that it resembled the freshly scalped head of a trapper.
This was the West. Dakota.
Back in Manhattan . . . Sissy gazing over the primordial rim . . . of mixing bowls . . . dishpans . . . brandy snifters.
Sissy listening to the lope of Tenth Street traffic. Sissy staring down the poodle. Sissy, the next time Marie made a pass at her, surprising them both by taking the offensive, and afterward, while getting dressed, feeling that it had been a mistake and swearing off women forever. Sissy pumping Julian for ideas, facts, opinions —then sometimes interrupting his lectures to snigger “Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.” Sissy painting her nails so that they were a blizzard of cherry coughdrops when she hitched from room to room. Sissy introspective, Sissy brooding, Sissy 204
tomrobbins
calm as ever except that now her lifelong serenity seemed thin and brittle and she gave people the disquieting impression that at any moment she might lunge away in an unexpected direction.
Julian refused to give up on her. “She is immature and self-indulgent,” he explained. “Those traits can be overcome.” It was the Mohawk’s belief that his wife had been born into an ordinary family in the ordinary way, and had not some gene broken down under pressure, some chro-mosome slipped and fallen on its ass, she might have become a woman like any other. “She’s lovely and intelligent.
She needs only to be taught to overcome her affliction instead of reveling in it.”
“Quite probably you are correct,” agreed Dr. Goldman. “As you know, some social and behavioral deviants develop subcultures that, like the ethnic and racial ghettos, constitute havens where the individuals can live openly and with mutual support and insist that they are just as good as anyone else. Social deviates such as homosexuals and drug addicts may congregate in enclaves or live in small communities and take the line that they are not only as good as, but actually better than, ‘straights,’

and that the lives they lead are superior to those led by the majority. The socially stigmatized individual, by entering a subculture, accepts his alienation from the larger society, and by identifying himself with like souls claims that he is a full- fledged ‘normal’ or even a superior human being and that it is the others who are lacking. This type of adjustment is much more available to ethnic minorities, such as Jews, Amish or Black Panthers, and to stigmatized social deviants, such as hippies, drug addicts and homosexuals, than it is to the blind, the deaf and the orthopedically handicapped. So your wife may have chosen to become a subculture of one, so to speak.
“You say that she frequently makes a sincere effort to function as a normal woman in a normal household; well, every nonconformist secretly believes that he or she could live a straight life if only they so chose, and no doubt your e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 205
wife yearns to prove that, within her dextrous limitations, she can adapt at will. Yet, as you say, so long as she indulges her handicap and the fantasy life she has constructed around it, she is not likely to succeed.
“At this juncture, however, I see no need in forcing her to visit the clinic against her will.”
“No, no, I wouldn’t wish that,” said Julian.
But that evening when he returned home and saw what Sissy had done, he telephoned Dr. Goldman:
“I’m bringing her in,” he wheezed.

55.
“there are two kinds of crazy people,” Dr.
Goldman said. He said this privately, to close friends, and with no intention of being quoted. “There are those whose primitive instincts, sexual and aggressive, have been misdi-rected, blunted, confused or shattered at an early age by environmental and/or biological factors beyond their control. Not many of these people can completely and permanently regain that balance we call ‘sanity,’ but they can be made to confront the source of their damage, to compensate for it, to reduce their disadvantageous substitutions and to adjust to the degree that they can meet most social requirements without painful difficulty. My satisfaction in life is in assisting these people in their adjustments.
“But there are other people, people who choose to be crazy in order to cope with what they regard as a crazy world. They have adopted craziness as a lifestyle. I’ve found that there is nothing I can do for these people because the only way you can get them to give up their craziness is to convince them that the world is actually sane. I must confess that I have found such a conviction almost impossible to support.”
206
tomrobbins
By Dr. Goldman’s unofficial classifications (and he would have been the first to term them personal and over-simplified), the mental “problems” of Sissy Hankshaw Gitche should have fit squarely into the first category, for she had certainly been attended by sufficient traumas in her formative years. Yet, after two sessions with her, one in which she was administered the talk serum to penetrate her reticence, Dr. Goldman was left with the uneasy notion that Sissy belonged partly, if not wholly, in the category of the voluntarily crazed.
Since he was frustrated, annoyed, even a little scared by the second category, Dr. Goldman decided to turn over Sissy’s case to one of his assistants. In particular,

he decided to dump Sissy’s case on Dr. Robbins, the young intern who had only recently assumed duties at the upper East Side clinic.
Dr. Robbins spent much of his time in the garden, a dreamy expression on his face. He looked like Doris Day with a mustache. He had been overheard yelling at a patient who complained of a lack of purpose in life: “Purpose! Purposes are for animals with a hell of a lot more dignity than the human race! Just hop on that strange tor-pedo and ride it to wherever its going.”
To a patient who had expressed a wish to overcome his alleged irresponsibility, Dr. Robbins had said, “The man who considers himself ‘responsible’ has not honestly examined his motives.”
To a patient expressing outrage, Dr. Robbins had shouted, “Don’t be outraged, be outrageous!”
At least two patients had received from Dr. Robbins the following advice: “So you think that you’re a failure, do you? Well, you probably are. What’s wrong with that? In the first place, if you’ve any sense at all you must have learned by now that we pay just as dearly for our triumphs as we do for our defeats. Go ahead and fail. But fail with wit, fail with grace, fail with wit style. A mediocre failure is as insufferable as a mediocre success. Embrace failure! Seek e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 207
it out. Learn to love it. That may be the only way any of us will ever be free.”
It should come as no surprise that some of the clinic staff looked upon the new intern with less than favor. Dr. Goldman, however, resisted pressure to dismiss Dr. Robbins.
“These young guys come out of school nowadays with their heads dripping Erik Erikson and R. D. Laing. Robbins is bright and those radical ideas are temporarily attractive.
After he’s been in the field for six months he’ll recognize what idealistic hogwash they are and gradually reject them.”
Dr. Goldman summoned Dr. Robbins from the garden, where he’d been fingering a crocus. He gave him Sissy’s file.

“When you interview Mrs. Gitche, you should consider the following variables: Depression—tensions combined with guilt derived from feelings that deformity is a punishment, tending to immobilize the deformed with consequent sadness, helplessness and inadequacy; Pessimism—a defense against the environment reflected by verbaliza-tion of a limited level of aspiration; Inadequate feminine role identification—poor identification with that which in our society constitutes womanhood, with resultant passivity and lethargy; Sociopathic impulsivity— emotions translated into aggressive action regardless of consequences to others; Inadequate compensatory ambition—the inability to mobilize additional effort to overcome the physical limitations of deformity; and, especially in this case, Inverted compensation—denial of the deformity or an irrational capitalization upon the deformity, exaggerated to the point of delusions of grandeur. A well- prepared line of questioning should narrow these variables down fairly quickly to one or two of primary interest and I rather suspect it will be the last that you will find yourself acting upon.”
When he met with Sissy the next morning, however, Dr. Robbins ignored Dr. Goldman’s suggested line of inquiry, asking Sissy directly and simply, “Okay, why did you turn your husband’s birds loose?”
208
tomrobbins
“I couldn’t bear to see them caged any longer,” answered Sissy. “They deserved to be free.”
“Yeah, I understand. But don’t you see, those birds had been in a cage their whole lives with somebody to provide for them. Now they’re having to fend for themselves in a huge alien city where they don’t know the rules and where they’re probably frightened and confused. They won’t be happy being free.”
Sissy didn’t hesitate. “There’s just one thing in this life that’s better than happiness and that’s freedom. It’s more important to be free than to be happy.”
Dr. Robbins did hesitate. “How did you arrive at that opinion?” he inquired. “I may have always felt it,” Sissy said. “But it was the Chink who put it into

words for me.”
This time Dr. Robbins hesitated longer. As if he could bow it like a violin, he ran a finger back and forth through his shaggy mustache. The music that resulted was soft and dry, the sort that might make one flake of dandruff say to another, “Darling, they’re playing our song.” Then, the intern buzzed the office intercom. “Miss Waterworth,” he said, “cancel my appointments for the remainder of the day.”
Dr. Robbins arose, his mustache rising with him.
“Sissy,” he said with a smile, “let’s get a bottle of wine and go out in the garden.”

56.
the garden was an anatomy lesson of calyxes and pistils. With no more embarrassment than an old professor, spring was turning the pages. On leather couches throughout the clinic, throughout the upper East Side, in fact, people were confessing the most bizarre and boring e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 209
details to analyst after analyst, but out in Dr. Goldman’s walled garden the flowers didn’t care. The flowers stood around with their petals hanging out, lasciviously awaiting whatever bees might make it through the smog. And for the adjustments of neither the first nor second category of psychosis did the flowers care.
Sissy didn’t much care, either. Julian had promised that if she was a“good girl” and stayed at the clinic for a minimum of thirty days, he would take her upstate to meet her in-laws. Julian’s father and his father’s father were deceased, and his mother and paternal grandmother had moved back near Mohawk, New York, where, to Julian’s discomfort, they had reassumed some of the old ways.
For the length of her marriage, Sissy had yearned to probe the Indianness in her husband’s background. Yet it wasn’t merely the prospect of finally meeting the squaws in his closet that had her rosebudding that May morn. Sissy was being affable to Dr. Robbins, Sissy was glowing in each of her sockets, primarily because of the letter she’d just received.
The letter had been delivered earlier that morning by a flunky of the Countess’s. It was, in fact, addressed to her in care of the Countess, with a notation on the envelope:
“Please forward—or it’ll be your ass.” The postmark wore the word dokata as the queen of ink would wear a necklace.
Dearest Sissy,
Gee, it’s been quite a spell hasn’t it? It’s not like I haven’t had time to write. We were snowed in all blessed winter as usual, with nothing much to do.

But although I thought of you a thousand million times, I just couldn’t get it together to compose a letter. Today, though, the first whoopers came back—
on their way north to hatch their chicks—and seeing them out there at the lake again was such a flashback, and made me miss you so much, that I just had to take pen in hand, as they say.
210
tomrobbins
Let’s see now, what’s the news? Well, we traded our Cadillac to Billy West for forty goats. Delores says we were robbed, but how else were we going to get a herd of goats? I ask you. We got no money to speak of and these are all prime animals, rustled out of Minnesota, but no sense spreading that around.
So we’ve got our goats out to pasture and we’ve been busy putting in the garden and making repairs.
The ranch got sort of messed up in our takeover, but I guess you noticed that. Sorry if I didn’t pay attention to you at that time, but I was under a heap of pressure to pull the whole caper off. I’m just glad you got out of the way, and hope the Countess, as he calls himself, hasn’t given you any trouble about it.
We got a bunch of new cowgirls, almost twice as many as before. They’re from all over. Some were involved in radical politics, some worked in the peace movement and some were pretty heavy into drugs. We even got a Gospel- quoting Jesus lady, her name’s Mary. Linda is a professor’s daughter from Berkeley, California—she and Kym are really hitting it off. Then there’s Jody, she’s a regular simple ranch girl out of Nebraska somewhere. But they’re all cowgirls now.
Lost a couple, too. That rich woman from Detroit, the guest that joined up with us, she got such a case of cabin fever along about February that she hired a helicopter to come in and fly her out. She actually was talking out of her head. Then Gloria, she managed to get herself knocked up in Mottburg. I hated to see Gloria go, she was one of the original beauticians that helped me get cowgirls on the Rubber Rose in the first place. But Delores insisted that Gloria couldn’t have

a baby on the ranch, and of course there’s nowhere in the Dakotas where a woman can get an abortion. So she had to split. That was weird, too, because Delores and Gloria were close friends.
Delores and Debbie went round and round about it.
Delores said that if women have any hopes of getting e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t
h e b l u e s 211
out from under men’s thumbs—oops! pardon me, Sissy, I better say that a different way. Delores said that if women have any hopes of ceasing to be en- slaved by men, then they’ve got to control and escape their biological roles, they’ve got to free themselves from motherhood. It’s motherhood, both the fact and the threat of it, that makes us—wait a minute, got to look up this word in Kym’s dictionary—
vulnerable (according to Delores). She’s all for test-tube babies, made in laboratories and cared for by professional nurseries. Well, Debbie, she says such ideas are dumb. Debbie says sexual reproduction is the basic and primary difference between men and women, and we’d better not forget it. She says the ability to bring life into the world puts a woman closer to the Divine Mystery of the universe than males are, and that her motherly feelings are what gives her her protective and peaceful qualities, thus accounting for what is best in her— and best in the human race. She says the capacity for motherhood is the source of women’s strength. Only women stand between technology and the destruction of nature, Deb says. If we’re ever going to get the world back on a natural footing, back in tune with natural rhythms, if we’re going to nurture the Earth and protect it and have fun with it and learn from it—which is what mothers do with their children—then we’ve got to put technology (an aggressive masculine system) in its proper place, which is that of a tool to be used sparingly, joyfully, gently and only in fullest cooper-ation with nature. Nature must govern technology, not the other way around. Only then can all oppres-sion end. Nothing is more vital to the human species than the reproduction of life. That is woman’s trump card. But if we allow babies to be created in plastic wombs or by any other than natural means, we are letting the sacred life process fall into the hands of men. The final and greatest power on Earth will be in 212
tomrobbins

the hands of logic-mad reason-crazed juiceless technocrats. They already own death, and use it to repress life. If women let them, they may also own life.
What do you think of all that? Me, I guess I have to take Debbie’s side this time. I might not be objective, however, because it’s impossible for me to get pregnant. Result of being shot with a silver bullet.
Oh, Sissy, now I’m remembering your sweet hands on my scar!
In a few minutes, I’m going to return to the scene of our love. Last fall, Debbie and I left mountains of brown rice for the cranes to munch, and they stayed at the pond longer than they ever had in the past.
This time we’re going to try a different diet on them to see if they won’t stay even longer.
By the way, you might be interested in knowing that the Chink survived the winter in fine shape. I’m visiting him once a week again. Now you know my little secret, huh? Well, I hear tell that you didn’t exactly sit at his feet listening to Bible stories. Ha ha.
He’s really something, isn’t he? The billy goat!
Let’s see. Delores still hasn’t had her Third Vision.
Peyote is making her look green around the jaws.
Billy West is going to try to snatch us a stereo because that goddamn radio plays nothing but polkas.
Heather’s eyebrow healed up fine. Big Red led a revolt against Debbie’s cooking, so we’re taking turns on the chuck wagon these days. Kym may have a poem published in Rolling Stone. Elaine has a bladder infection. I guess that’s all the news for now.
Sissy you are such a special person. I can’t tell you how much you mean to me. I hope you’re happy. Oh, I know that you are. You’re so on top of it you could never be unhappy. You’re an example to us here.
I’m pretty happy myself. Riding the range in the spring sunshine I see my

shadow against the grass and I swear that shadow extends far beyond this place. This prairie. This world. It’s like my life is e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 213
sparkling in every direction, through all of space and all of time. You of all people understand.
I love you, Bonanza Jellybean
As if it were a gift neither expected nor deserved, the letter caused new life to begin in Sissy. Observing her, Dr.
Robbins sensed this stirring. He knew that whatever it was would be hard to name and hard to trace—it always is. And he recognized that no doctor, not even in the name of healing, has a right to set his shoes among the bloomings of the human soul. He poured wine. He inhaled the garden (although not deeply, for East Eighty-sixth Street was but a wall away). He observed her.
Sunlight enhanced her yellow hair, her fruit-taste complexion, her pouty lips. Sunlight even did something for the inflated rubber turkey legs that were her thumbs—
although Dr. Robbins was not sure what. “Tell me about this Chink,” said Dr. Robbins.
Sissy was ready. She let out a sigh that could have inflated the whole turkey. And then she told him everything.

57.
to neither the siwash nor the Chinese does the Chink belong.
As are many of the best and worse contributions to the human race, the Chink is Japanese. With their flair for inventive imitation, the Japanese made the Chink.
He was born on an island in the Ryukyu chain. It was called an island, but in actuality it was a volcano, a half-submerged dunce cap that Nature had once placed on the noggin of the sea for forgetting which had come first, land 214
tomrobbins
or water. For centuries this volcano had sent shock after shock of purple smoke into the sky. It was a chain smoker.
A Ryukyu chain smoker.
Upon the sides of this smoking volcanic cone the Chink’s parents had raised yams and upon the sides of this smoking volcanic cone the little Chink had played.
Once, when he was six, he climbed to the top of the volcano. His sister found him there, on the edge of the crater, unconscious from the fumes, his hair and lashes singed.
He had been looking in.
When he was eight, he emigrated to the United States of America, where his uncle tended gardens in San Francisco. Dr. Goldman’s garden was okay for a clinic in New York City, but the Chink’s uncle would not have wanted one of his gardens to marry it.
The Chink picked up English and other bad habits. He went to high school and other dangerous places. He earned American citizenship and other dubious distinctions.
When asked what he wished to do with his life, he answered (although he had

learned to appreciate movies, jukebox music and cheerleaders) that he wanted to grow yams on the side of a volcano—but as that was impracti-cable in the city of San Francisco, he became, like uncle, a gardener. For more than a dozen years he made the grass greener and the flowers flowerier on the campus of the University of California at Berkeley. Dr. Robbins would have admired his work.
By special arrangement with his employers, the Chink attended one class a day at the university. Over a twelve-year span he completed a good many courses. He never graduated, but it would be a mistake to assume he did not receive an education.
He was astute enough to warn his relatives, on December 8, 1941, the day after Pearl Harbor, “The shinto is gonna hit the fan. We’d better get our yellow asses back to some safe volcano and eat yams till this blows over.” They didn’t listen. After all, they were patriotic, property-owning, tax-paying American citizens.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 215
The Chink wasn’t anxious to flee, either. He was in love again. Camping on the
rim of a different volcano. So to speak.
On February 20, 1942, came the order. Two weeks later, the Army took steps. In March, evacuation was in full swing. Some 110,000 people of Japanese ancestry were moved out of their homes in “strategic” areas of the West Coast and settled in ten “relocation” camps further inland. They could bring to camp only what they could carry. Left behind were houses, businesses, farms, home furnishings, personal treasures, liberty. Americans of non-Nip ancestry bought up their farmland at ten cents on the dollar (The crops failed). Seventy percent of the relocated people had been born and reared in the U.S.
“Loyal” Japanese were separated from “disloyal.” If one would swear allegiance to the American war effort—
and could pass an FBI investigation—one had the choice of remaining in a relocation camp or finding employment in some nonstrategic area. The camps were militaristic formations of tarpaper barracks, supplied with canvas cots and potbellied stoves. Six to nine families lived in a barracks. Partitions between “apartments” were as thin as crackers and did not reach the ceiling (Even so,

there were an average of twenty-five births per month in most camps). There was no great rush to leave the camps: a loyal family that had been relocated on an Arkansas farm had been killed by an irate anti-Jap mob.
Disloyal Japanese-Americans—those who expressed excessive bitterness over the loss of their property and the disruption of their lives, or who, for various other reasons, were suspected of being dangerous to national security—
were given the pleasure of one another’s company at a special camp, the Tule Lake Segregation Center in Siskiyou County, California. The Chink had been asked if he supported the American war effort. “Hell no!” he replied.
“Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.” He waited for the logical next question, did he support the Japanese war effort, to which he would have given the same negative response. He was 216
tomrobbins
still waiting when the military police shoved him on the train to Tule Lake.
Tule was even less of a lake than Siwash. It had been drained so that land could be “reclaimed” for farming.
Reclaimed! Which came first, land or water? Give the wrong answer, you have to sit in a corner with a volcano on your head.
The detention camp had been built on that part of the dry lake bottom that was unsuitable for cultivation.
However, the inmates (or “segregees,” as the War Relocation Authority preferred to label them) were put to work on surrounding farmland, building dikes, digging irriga-tion ditches and producing crops that proved once again that the greenest thumbs are often yellow.
(Perhaps the author is telling you more about Tule Lake than you want to know. But the camp, in Northern California near the Oregon border, still exists, and while time, that ultimate diet pill, has reduced its 1032 buildings to their concrete foundations, the government yet may have plans for them which may someday be your concern.) Baked in summer, dust-blinded in fall, frozen in winter and mud-up-to-elbows in spring, the Tule Lake camp was surrounded by

a high barbed-wire fence. Soldiers in look-out towers kept constant watch—on kids swimming in ditches, adolescents hunting rattlesnakes, old men playing Go and women shopping for notions in a commissary where the latest issues of True Confessions were always on the racks. It was reported that, even if the guards were removed, the segregees would not try to escape. They were afraid of Tule Lake farmers.
The Chink petitioned to be allowed to join his family in a less restrictive camp. But his FBI check disclosed that he had, over a period of years, pursued such heathen practices as jujitsu, ikebana, Sanskrit mushroom magic and Zen archery; that at UC he had written academic papers that suggested anarchist leanings; and that he had had repeated intimate relations with Caucasian women, include v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 217
ing the niece of an admiral in the U.S. Navy. Please to remain at Tule Lake.
In early November of 1943, there was trouble at Tule Lake. A careless GI truck driver accidentally killed a Japanese farmworker. Angered, the segregees refused to complete the harvest. There followed a confrontation that Army spokesmen identified as a “riot.” Among the 155
ringleaders who were beaten and imprisoned in the stockade was the man we now call the Chink. The Chink had not participated in the “riot,” had, in fact, been looking forward to the rhythm of harvest, but camp authorities claimed that his notoriously insubordinate attitude (not to mention the crazed way he had of venerating plants, vegetables and other men’s wives) contributed to unrest at the camp.
If he liked the segregation center little, he liked the stockade less. For several days and nights he meditated upon the yam, that tuber that, while remaining sweet to the taste and soft to the touch, is so tough it will thrive on the sides of live volcanos. “Yam” became his mantra. Om mani padme yam. Hare yam-a. Wham, bam, thank you yam. Hellfire and yam nation. Then, like the yam, he went underground.
He tunneled out of the stockade, out of the camp.
In wartime America, where even toddlers and lobotomy patients remembered Pearl Harbor, the sneaky little slant-eyed yellow-bellied infidel was on the yam. So to speak.

58.
there is an elizabethan maxim, “To tend a garden is to be civilized.”
Sir Kenneth Clark’s boundless love for Western civilization seems to purr most contentedly when he is displayed, tweed-suited, in a landscaped garden.
218
tomrobbins
The formal garden is an outdoor room where Nature is purged of its wildness, or, at least, is held in limbo.
It was in a high-quality garden that the fall of man began. The question is, fall from where into what? Innocence into sin? Substance into form? Primitivism into civilization?
Granting that primitive, unfallen man had access to nourishing psychic processes, which the clipped hedges of civilization have obscured, would it be unfair to conclude that the ecstatic mind degenerates as it begins to contem-plate gardening?
Japanese gardening, with its emphasis upon irregular interval, as opposed to European gardening, with its emphasis upon ordered form, generates points of departure rather than sets of conditions . . .
Dr. Robbins, already vicariously affected by the Chink, was eyeballing the clinic garden from new perspectives while Sissy went inside to use the facilities. Suddenly, Miss Waterworth’s red Bibanas wedgies appeared among the tulips.
“Excuse me, Dr. Robbins,” Miss Waterworth said, “but Dr. Goldman has asked that you reconsider your request to cancel the rest of your day’s appointments.”
From where he lay in the barbered grass, cradling the one-third-empty bottle of Chablis, Dr. Robbins did not look up, but continued to focus upon the red shoes.

He was reminded of the skinned knees of our betrayed Savior kneeling in Gethsemane’s dew, of the speedy flick-flick of the Serpent’s tongue, of the blood that oozed in pain and pleasure in King Louis’s Deer Park, of cleverly disguised microphones blossoming among the roses on the White House lawn— and other ominous scenes from past issues of Better Homes and Gardens. “One moment, Miss Waterworth,” said Dr. Robbins.
Sissy was returning.
“Sissy, you do have more to relate about the Chink, do you not?”
“Oh my yes,” she said. “I haven’t even told you how he e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 219
came to live with the Clock People. Or anything. But if my time is up . . .”
“Never mind. Miss Waterworth, you are interrupting the only interesting sentences I have ever heard uttered by a patient—or, I might add, a staff member —in the three months that I’ve been an asset to this institution. Convey to Dr. Goldman my regrets. Now, Sissy. Another thimble of wine? Do go on.”
“Let’s see. Where was I?”
“The Chink was so unhappy at the Tule Lake Segregation Center that he dared to escape.”
“No,” said Sissy. “I’ve given the wrong impression. The Chink wasn’t charmed with the camp, but he was not unhappy there. The soil around Tule Lake grows the finest horseradishes in the world. It grew big white onions and tons of lettuce. He planted, cultivated, harvested and venerated. He wasn’t really unhappy.”
“Okay,” said Dr. Robbins. “I get it. He wasn’t unhappy but neither was he free. And freedom is more important than happiness. Right?”
Sipping her wine, Sissy thought it much too dry. The Countess had cursed her with a taste for the Ripple. “No, that’s not exactly right, either,” she said. “Even though the Chink was still in the early stages of his development, he was advanced enough to know that freedom—for humans—is largely an internal condition. He was free enough in his own head, even then, to endure Tule Lake

without undue frustration.”
“What made him split, then?” With the top of the bottle, Dr. Robbins prodded his caterpillar mustache. As if trained for just such a function, it undulated until it formed a shaggy question mark.
“You’re not yet aware of the Chink’s peculiar fascination with the science of the particular, with laws governing exceptions.”
The caterpillar repeated its question mark routine.
“You see,” explained Sissy, “there were three categories of Japanese-Americans in the country during the war.
220
tomrobbins
There were those in detention camps, including Tule Lake; there were those who had been released to perform menial labor in remote, rural areas of the interior; and there were those serving in the U.S. Army. Each member or each category was carefully watched over and super-vised by the government. The Chink busted out of Tule Lake because he believed there ought to be an exception.
After enough provocation, he took it upon himself to enact the singular as opposed to the general, to embody the exception rather than the rule.”

59.
he headed for the proverbial hills. The Cascade Mountains lay to the west, across twenty or more miles of lava beds. The lava felt sharply familiar. Each rip in his shoes brought him closer to his childhood. All night, he jogged, walked, rested, jogged. At sunrise, Mt.
Shasta, a cone of diamond ice cream, a volcano on a sab-batical, adorned (like the whooping cranes) with the power of white, was waiting. Encouraging him. An hour after dawn he was in tree-cover.
His plan was to follow the crest trail through the Cascades, down the full length of the Sierra Nevada and into Mexico. In the spring, perhaps, he would wetback into the U.S. again and work the crops. There weren’t many farmers who could distinguish a Nip from a Spic, not under a straw hat, not with spine bent to the rutabagas. Alas, Mexico was a thousand miles away, the month was November, there was already snow at the higher altitudes, flop flap was the song of his shoes.
Fortunately, the Chink knew which plants to chomp, which nuts and mushrooms to toast over tiny minimum-smoke fires. As best he could he patched his shoes with e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 221
bark. His journey went well for a week or more. Then, out of the mysterious dwelling place of weather, there rode an abrupt and burly storm. For a while it toyed with him, blowing in his ears, aging his normally black hair, hanging flakes artfully from the tip of his nose. But the storm was on serious business, and soon the Chink, crouched though he was in the lee of a cliff, realized that, by comparison, the passion of this storm to storm made puny his own desire to reach Mexico. Snow snow snow snow snow snow. The last thing a person sees before he dies he will be obliged to carry with him through all the baggage rooms of lasting death. The Chink strained to squint a sequoia or at least a huckleberry bush, but all his freezing eyes saw was snow. And the snow wanted to lie atop him as badly as any male ever wanted to lie on female.
The storm had its way with him. He lost consciousness trying to think of God, but thinking instead of a radiant woman cooking yams.

Of course, he was rescued. He was rescued by the only people who possibly could have rescued him. He was discovered, hauled in, bedded down and thawed out by members of an American Indian culture that, for several reasons, cannot be identified beyond this fanciful description: the Clock People.
It is not easy, perhaps, to accept the fact of the Clock People’s existence. You might read through every issue of National Geographic since the Year One and not find an exact parallel to the Clock People’s particular distinctions.
However, if you think about it for a while—the way Sissy did, the way the author has—it becomes obvious that the civilizing process has left pockets of vacuum that only Clock People could have filled.
222
tomrobbins

60.
the room in which the fugitive regained consciousness was large and well heated, draped with crude blankets and the skins of animals. Whether it was a cave, a camouflaged cabin or an elaborate tipi/hogan-type dwelling the Chink would not say. He was careful not to disclose any details that might aid in pinpointing the location of his hosts.
Sissy, moreover, would never have mentioned the Clock People to Dr. Robbins had she not been assured that conversation between psychiatrist and patient is privileged and confidential, immune, even, from governmental sub-poena. That Dr. Robbins was someday to violate that privilege . . . well, let’s pass over that for now.
As had been written, the Clock People are of an American Indian culture. Ethnically speaking, however, they are not a tribe. Rather, they are a gathering of Indians from various tribes. They have lived together since 1906.
At the dawning of April 18, 1906, the city of San Francisco awakened to a terrible roar, mounting in intensity.
For sixty-five seconds the city shook like a rubber meat-ball in the jaws of Teddy Roosevelt. There followed a silence almost as terrible as the roar. The heart of San Francisco lay in ruins. Buildings had tumbled into creviced streets; twisted bodies of humans and horses colored the rubble; gas hissed like the Snake of All Bad Dreams from dozens of broken mains. During the next three days, flames enveloped 490 blocks, unquenched by the teardrops of the homeless and lame.
History knows the catastrophe as the Great San Francisco Earthquake. That is not how the Clock People know it, but, then, the Clock People don’t believe in earthquakes.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 223
Among the crowds who watched the blazing devasta-tion from surrounding hills

was a scattering of American Indians. Largely from California tribes, though including folk from Nevada and Oregon, and in whose midst there moved representatives of the few but notorious Siwash, they were the first of the urbanized Indians. Poor, generally, they held jobs of menial or disreputable stature along the Barbary Coast (It should be emphasized, however, that they had been drawn into the city, each and every of them, not by desire for money—they needed no money where they came from—but by curiosity alone). The white San Franciscans camping on the smoky hilltops surveyed the ruins in a state of shock. Perhaps the Indians, too, were overwhelmed by the spectacle, but they, as always, appeared as inscrutable as the other side of a nickel.
Yet the Indians were to display shock aplenty. It was when the fires were at last controlled and the citizens began to rush back into the still-warm ashes, singing, praising the Lord, and shouting to one another their plans for rebuilding their metropolis, that Indian eyes widened in disbelief. They simply could not comprehend what they were witnessing. They realized that the white man lacked wisdom, but was he completely goofy? Couldn’t he read the largest and most lurid of signs? Even those Indians who had grown to trust the white man were grievously disappointed. Rebuild the city? They shook their heads and muttered.
For several weeks they remained on the hill, strangers united by shock and disappointment as well as by a common cultural comprehension of what had happened below. Then, through communications the nature of which is known best to them, several of the Indians led a migration of a small band of souls into the Sierras, where, in a period of thirteen full moons, they generated the stalk of a new culture. (Or, should we say, under their impetus, the ancient stalk of Life Religion put forth unexpected and portentous shoots.)
224
tomrobbins

61.
on behalf of the susquehanna, the Winnebago, the Kickapoo, the Chickasaw, the Kwakiutl, the Pota-watomi and all the other splendidly appellated aborigines who came to be labeled “Indians” through the ignorance of an Italian sailor with a taste for oranges, it is only fitting that “Indians” misnamed our Japanese- American hero
“Chink.”
There were very few Japanese in San Francisco in 1906, but Chinese were plentiful. Already there was a China-town, and its exotic trappings were a lure to tourists.
Drugs, gambling and prostitution abounded in the Chinese quarter, just as they did on the Barbary Coast, and the Indians often had overheard their employers speaking of the competition from the “Chinks.”
In the years between 1906 and 1943, the Clock People had, naturally, discussed on many occasions the circumstances of their Sierra migration. More than once, they had wondered aloud why the yellow people had been so unenlightened as to join the whites in resurrecting San Francisco. It had been astonishing enough to watch the white man set about to repeat his mistake, but to watch the Orientals follow him . . . !
Their curiosity about yellow men probably had influenced their decision to rescue this near-frozen outsider.
During his days of recuperation, the storm victim had heard several of his hosts inquire about the condition of the “the Chink.” His sense of irony was not so frostbitten that he could refrain from perpetuating, once he had recovered, the misnomer.
Eventually, perhaps, he confessed to his Japanese ances-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 225
try. Certainly and soon, he confessed to being a fugitive.

The Clock People elected to harbor him, and were never to regret it. In the years that followed, the Chink performed many services for them. In return, he was accepted as one of them, and gained privity to all of the secrets of the clockworks.
The pivotal function of the Clock People is the keeping and observing of the clockworks. The clockworks is a real thing. It is kept at the center, at the soul, of the Great Burrow.
The Great Burrow is a maze or labyrinthine sequence of tunnels, partly manmade, partly of geological origin.
To be more specific: a natural network of narrow caves, lying beneath a large knoll in the Sierra wilderness, was lengthened and elaborated upon by the Indians who ex-iled themselves from San Francisco in 1906. Many, if not most, of the tunnels are deadends.
The Clock People, as we now know them, divided themselves into thirteen families, not necessarily along tribal lines. (What is the numerical significance of the Clock People’s taking thirteen months to structure their ritual, then separating into thirteen families? Well, briefly, they consider thirteen a more natural number than twelve.
To the Babylonians, thirteen was unlucky. That is why, when they invented astrology, they willfully overlooked a major constellation, erroneously assigning to the zodiac only twelve houses. The Clock People knew nothing of Babylonian superstition, but they knew the stars, and it was partly in an effort to override the unnatural twelve-mindedness of Western culture that they chose to give thirteen its due.) To each family was assigned the responsibility for one section of the Great Burrow. Each family knows one section inch by inch, but is completely ignorant of the other twelve sections. So no one family nor individual knows the Way. The Way, of course, being the true path that takes one through the Great Burrow maze to the clockworks. Moreover, it is not possible for the 226
tomrobbins
families to compile a map of the Way, for each family holds as a sacred secret its knowledge of its burrow or section of the Way.
(In naming these tunnel sections “burrows,” the Clock People were not

particularly identifying with animals—
no more so than were the Indians in whose culture totems played such a large and vivid role. Totemically oriented Indians utilized the characteristics of certain animals metaphorically. It was simply a form of poetic symbolism.
They used animals to think with.)
Okay. Who gets to the clockworks, how and when? Each morning at sunrise that day’s designated guides—
one from each of the thirteen families—gather at the portal of the Great Burrow. Then they are all blindfolded, except for the guide representing the Family of the First Burrow. The blindfolded twelve link hands and are led by the first guide through any of several routes he or she may take to reach the beginning of the Second Burrow. A guide will purposefully attempt never to use the same route twice. Often a guide will backtrack, and sometimes he or she will instruct the others in the party to let go of each other’s hands and spin. Since, by this date, there are around twenty members in each family, an individual acts as guide only about thirteen times a year.
Now, when the first guide reaches the terminus of his burrow and the beginning of the next, he instructs the guide for the Second Burrow to remove his blindfold, and then binds his own eyes. And so it goes until the group is at the large central chamber that contains the clockworks.
There, they go about “keeping the time” until the hour for the return trip. Theoretically, the thirteen daily guides emerge from the Great Burrow at sunset, although this occurs in actuality only on those days when there are thirteen hours of daylight.
Occasionally other people accompany the guides on their mission. An aged or sickly person who is about to die or a pregnant woman commencing labor is led, blindfolded, to the central burrow, for insofar as it is possible, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 227
all Clock People deaths and births occur in the presence of the clockworks. Aside from birthing or dying, the reason for the daily visits to the clockworks is to check the time.

Maybe we should say “check the times,” for the clockworks is really two clocks and the sort of time each one measures is quite distinct. (Maybe we should also establish that it is the original clockworks that is being described here: there was later to be another, and the second figures even more prominently in our story.) First, there is a huge hourglass, at least seven feet in di-ameter and thirteen feet tall, made from the finely stitched and tightly stretched internal membranes of large beasts (elk, bears, mountain lions). The hourglass is filled with acorns, enough so that it takes them approximately thirteen hours to pour or funnel, one by one, through the slender passage in the waist of the transparent device.
When the daily guides enter the soul burrow, the hourglass is turned on its opposite end. When they depart—in approximately thirteen hours—they flip it again. So
“checking the time,” or “keeping the time” is, in the twenty-six-hour day of the Clock People, the same as
“making time,” or, more generally, “making history.” The Clock People believe that they are making history and that the end of history will come with the destruction of the clockworks.
Please do not construe the “end of history” or the “end of time” to mean “the end of life” or what is normally meant by the apocalyptically minded when they speak (almost wishfully, it seems) of the “end of the world.”
That is paranoiac rubbish, and however one may finally evaluate the Clock People, their philosophy must be appreciated on a higher plane than doomsday drivel.
Well, then, what do the Clock People mean by the end of history and how will the clockworks be destroyed?
Zoom in on this: These people, these clandestinely ex-iled Indians, have no other ritual than this one: the checking of the clockworks—the keeping/making 228
tomrobbins
of history. Likewise, they have but one legend or cultural myth: that of a continuum they call the Eternity of Joy. It is into the Eternity of Joy that they believe all men will pass once the clockworks is destroyed. They look forward to

a state of timelessness, when bored, frustrated and unfulfilled people will no longer have to “kill time,”
for time will finally be dead.
They are preparing for timelessness by eliminating from their culture all rules, schedules and moral standards other than those that are directly involved with the keeping of the clockworks. The Clock People may be the most completely anarchistic community that has ever existed.
Rather, they may be the first community so far in which anarchy has come close to working. That is impressive in itself and should fan with peacock tails of optimism all those who dream of the ideal social condition.
The Clock People manage their anarchism (if that is not a contradiction) simply because they have channeled all of their authoritarian compulsions and control mania into a single ritual. It is clearly understood by all members of the community that there is no other ritual, no other required belief than this one— and, furthermore, that they themselves created the ritual: they have no silly supersti-tions about gods or ancestor spirits who hold this ritual over their heads in return for homage and/or “good” conduct.
Ritual, usually, is an action or ceremony employed to create a unity of mind among a congregation or community. The Clock People see the keeping of the clockworks as the last of the communal rituals. With the destruction of the clockworks, that is, at the end of time, all rituals will be personal and idiosyncratic, serving not to unify a community/cult in a common cause but to link each single individual with the universe in whatever manner suits him or her best. Unity will give way to plurality in the Eternity of Joy, although, since the universe is simultaneously many and One, whatever links the individual to the universe will automatically link him or her to all others, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 229
even while it enhances his or her completely separate identity in an eternal milkshake unclabbered by time.
Thus, paradoxically, the replacement of societal with individual rituals will bring about an ultimate unity vastly more universal than the plexus of communal rites that presently divides peoples into unwieldy, agitating and competing groups.

Now, the Clock People, being visionaries, are not content with their time- checking ritual. After all, it is the lone authoritarian, compulsive action that binds them. They chafe to dispense with it. If it could be eliminated, they could pass out of history and into the Eternity of Joy.
Timeless, they could bear their children and bury their dead wherever they chose. However, they understand that at this evolutionary stage they still require the ritual, even as they realize that destroying the clockworks is entirely within their power.
They will not destroy it. They have agreed—and this is central to their mythos— that the destruction must come from the outside, must come by natural means, must come at the will (whim is more like it) of that gesticulating planet whose more acute stirrings thoughtless people call
“earthquakes.”
Here, we can understand a bit more about the origins of their culture. The great rumble of 1906, which destroyed practically the whole of San Francisco, was taken by the Indians as a sign. They had left the land and gone to the city. That the city could be destroyed by the land in sixty-five seconds gave them a clue as to where the real power lay.
Within a natural context the phenomenon would never have appeared as a holocaust. Away from the herding centers we prize as cities, an “earthquake” would manifest itself only as a surface quickening of the globe’s proto-plastic movements, which, at various depths and various intensities, are occurring all of the time, and so not in time but all over time. Being “all over time” is the same as being out of time, because the notion of time is welded in-230
tomrobbins
separably to the notion of progression, but what is already everywhere cannot possibly progress.
From there, it is a short leap to the ledge of the dream: the Eternity of Joy (a continuous present in which everything, including the dance of aging, which we mistake as a chronological unfolding rather than a fixed posture of deepening cellular awareness, is taken together and always).

When the citizens of San Francisco began immediately to rebuild their city, the Indians were understandably very disappointed. The white (and yellow) San Franciscans hadn’t learned a thing. They had been given a sign—a powerful, lucid sign—that urban herding and its concomitant technologies are not the proper way to partake of this planet’s hospitality. (Actually, there are countless ways to live upon this tremorous sphere in mirth and good health, and probably only one way—the industrial-ized, urbanized, herding way—to live here stupidly, and man has hit upon that one wrong way.) The people of San Francisco failed to heed the sign. They capitulated, opting to stay in time and so out of eternity.
Readers may wonder why the Indians, who recognized the earthquake for what it really was, did not simply usher in the Eternity of Joy then and there. Well, they had both a realistic view and a sense of humor regarding their situation. They understood that it would take at least three or four generations to cleanse them of previous cultural deposits. The patriarchs—only two or three of whom are still alive—reasoned that if they could channel all of their fellows’ frustrations and self-destructive compulsions into a single, simple ritual, then two things would follow. One, outside that ritual, the community could experiment freely with styles of life instead of the attractions of death. Two, sooner or later, the Earth would issue another potent sign, one powerful enough to destroy their last icon of time-bound culture, the clockworks, ending the ritual even while it was reshaping much of American civilization.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 231
Which brings us, ticking, to the matter of the second clock. The first clock in the original clockworks, the membrane hourglass, sits in a pool of water. The Great Burrow is situated upon a deep fracture, a major branch of the San Andreas Fault. The Sierra fault is clearly shown on geological maps of Northern California (which does hint at the location of the original clockworks, doesn’t it?
even though the fracture is very long). In addition, the underground stream that feeds the Great Burrow pool flows directly into the San Andreas Fault. That pool of water is the second clock into the clockworks system. Consider its components.

Moments prior to an earthquake, certain sensitive persons experience nausea. Animals, such as cattle, are even more sensitive to prequake vibrations, feeling them earlier and more strongly. By far the most quake-sensitive creatures in existence are catfish. Readers, this is scientific fact; the doubtful among you should not hesitate to check it out. Catfish.
Now, there is a species of catfish, hereditarily sightless, that dwells exclusively in subterranean streams. Its Latin name is Satan eurystomus, again for the skeptical, but spe-lunkers know these fish as blindcats. Relatively rare in California, blindcats are quite common in the caverns and caves of the Ozark states and Texas.
The clockworks pool is inhabited by such catfish. Their innate catfish earthquake sensitivity is compounded by the fact that they are tuned in, fin and whisker, to the vibrations of one of the globe’s largest and most frenetic fault systems. When a tremor of any Richterian passion is building, the catfish go into a state of shock. They cease feeding, and when they move at all, it is erratically. By constantly monitoring changes in the Earth’s magnetic field or the tilt of the Earth’s surface or the rate of movement and intensity of stress where faults are slowly creeping, seismologists have correctly predicted a handful of minor tremors, though with no great exactitude. The clockworks catfish, on the other hand, have registered up-232
tomrobbins
coming quakes as far away as Los Angeles (in 1971) and as early as four weeks in advance.
On the earthen walls of the Central Burrow, the Clock People have marked in sequence the dates and intensities of all tremors, mad or mild, that have occurred along the two thousand miles of West Coast faults since 1908. The whole pattern, transcribed from the catfish clock, reveals a rhythmic structure that indicates to the rhythmic minds of the Indians that something emphatic is going to be coming along any week now.
This peek on destruction is Pythagorean only in the sense that with the cataclysmic konking of the last vestige of cultural ritual will come the kind of complete social and psychic freedom that only natural timeless anarchy can offer, the birth of a new people into the Eternity of Joy.

The Clock People regard civilization as an insanely complex set of symbols that obscures natural processes and encumbers free movement. The Earth is alive. She burns inside with the heat of cosmic longing. She longs to be with her husband again. She moans. She turns softly in her sleep. When the symbologies of civilization are destroyed, there will be no more “earthquakes.” Earthquakes are a manifestation of man’s consciousness. Without manmade follies, there could not be earthquakes. In the Eternity of Joy, pluralized, deurbanized man, at ease with his gentle technologies, will smile and sigh when the Earth begins to shake. “She is restless tonight,” they will say.
“She dreams of loving.” “She has the blues.”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 233

62.
in the flippers of dolphins there are five skeletal fingers. Once upon a time, dolphins had hands.
Observing the residual fingers that remain in their flippers, it is possible to conclude that dolphins had opposable thumbs.
Picture a dolphin holding an ace. Picture a dolphin plucking petals from a daisy: loves me, loves me not. Picture a dolphin, way back when, drawing an astrological chart and discovering that all of its planets were in Pisces.
Can you see a dolphin fingering its blowhole? A dolphin at a typewriter writing this book?
Imagine the dolphin, a land animal then (although the Pisces Express stops only at the bottom of the sea), wagging a slick thumb in the lizard-filtered air of prehistory, hitchhiking to Atlantis or Gondwanaland. Would you pick up a hitchhiking dolphin? What if you were driving a Barracuda?
Look, look, look, the author wants to say (to the short-sighted and temporal- minded), the dolphin used to have thumbs! Ponder that when you have a moment. Right now, however, dolphin thumb is eclipsed by Sissy thumb.
Flexing in a sooty city garden.
Dr. Robbins, bottoming out the wine, wished to know if the Chink swallowed the Clock People’s ideas.
The answer was, and is, no, he never was in total agreement with the Clock People’s viewpoints and supposi-tions, and as the years passed, he agreed with them less instead of more. However, he fell into the hands of the Clock People at a time when most of the world was banging heads together bloodily over vague, meaningless ma-234
tomrobbins

nias such as economic expansion and ethnocentric geo-politics, and his own peoples, the Japanese and the Americans, were among the most fanatical about victory as they prayed to the gods of bullets and taught their babies to walk on the edge of the knife. So, when he met the thirteen families of the Great Burrow and learned the rhymes and reasons of the clockworks, the Chink emitted a long overdue “Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.” Said he, “It is reassuring to see on the planet signs of intelligent life.”
“My sentiments exactly,” mused Dr. Robbins, as he watched the shadows of Sissy’s thumbs leaping like dolphins against the garden wall.

63.
among the clock people, who never had tasted a yam nor seen a whooper, who were unfamiliar with the practice of hitchhiking, who would have been flabber- gasted by a can of Yoni Yum and who knew better than to believe in such Fig Newtons of the American imagination as cowgirls, the Chink dwelt for twenty- six years.
For the first eight of those years, he lived virtually as a Clock Person himself, an honorary member of the Family of the Thirteenth Burrow, sharing its food, lodging and women. (Being an anarchistic, or, more precisely, a pluralistic society, some of the Clock People were monoga-mous, some, perhaps most, practitioners of free love. In a pluralistic society, love quickly shows all of its many smeared and smiling faces, and it should be noted that the term family was relevant only to the clockworks ritual, outside which there was uninhibited intermingling. For example, a man from the Family of the Fifth Burrow might impregnate an Eleventh Burrow lady, and the re-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 235
sulting child, once of age, might be assigned to the Family of the Ninth Burrow.)
In 1951, the war now only a glint in the American Legion’s shell-popped eye, the Chink moved into a shack that he built some nine or ten miles west of the Great Burrow. The shack was strategically erected at the narrow entrance to the valley, which, with a creek as its racing stripe, totaled out against the base of the tunnel-filled knoll. In the other direction, a couple of miles beyond the shack, was a trail that led to a dirt road that led to a paved highway that led past, eventually, a combination gas station, café and general store. The Chink began to take fortnightly hikes to that store, where he picked up newspapers and magazines, along with other supplies. These he read to those Clock People (all spoke English but few could read it) who were interested; these were mainly the younger ones, the old Indians regarding that “news” that did not have to do with quakes, hurricanes, floods and other geophysical shenanigans as trivia. The belch of civilization, they called it. Maybe the older Indians were right. It was the Eisenhower Years, remember, and the news read as if it had been washed out of a Pentagon desk commander’s golf socks.

The Chink also linked the older Indians with the rest of the world, but in a different manner. Throughout the decades, the Clock People had mysteriously maintained periodic contact with certain Indians on the outside. These outside contacts were medicine men or shamans, although exactly what was their relationship to the clockworks ritual and Eternity of Joy legend the Chink was never to ascertain. However, in the mid-fifties, one or more of these outsiders took to showing up at the Sierra store at the precise hours of the Chink’s unannounced visits. They’d drink a beer with him and give him a piece or two of seemingly insignificant gossip, which he would feel compelled to pass along once he was back at the Great Burrow. Thus, he functioned as a medium, as the air is the 236
tomrobbins
medium for drumbeats, connecting Clock People, young and old, with distant drummers.
He also functioned as an agent of diversion. When hunters, hikers or prospectors entered the area, the Chink used his wiles to guide them away from the vicinity of the Great Burrow. Conversation studded with tips about game, scenic waterfalls or ore deposits was usually enough to divert the intruders, but occasionally a small rock slide or other mishap would have to be arranged. Even so, a few interlopers, especially rangers of the U.S. Forest Service, slipped through the Chink’s net. Those who got too close were slain by the Clock People. From 1965 to 1969, seven outsiders took arrows through their breasts and were buried inside the Great Burrow.
These slayings were a source of contention between the Chink and the Clock People, the latter regarding them as the regrettable but necessary price of protection, the former declaring, “There are many things worth living for, there are a few things worth dying for, but there is nothing worth killing for.”
The Chink tried to impress upon the Clock People that, with the increase in air traffic over the mountains, as well as in the number of outdoorsmen whom civilization was driving into the wilderness, it was only a matter of
“time” before their culture was exposed. What would they do then? Obviously, the System would not be gracious enough to leave them alone. “We will hide in the tunnels,” answered some of the middle-aged. “We will defend ourselves to

the death,” answered some of the youths. “The movements of the Earth will take care of all that,” answered the elders, smiling enigmatically.
If the killings upset him, the Chink accepted with ease other contradictions in the Clock People’s philosophy.
When faced with a contradiction, as he was—as we all are—daily if not hourly, it seemed only fair to him to take both sides.
Yet he grew increasingly impatient with the Clock Peo-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 237
ple’s notions, and toward the end of his Sierra stay his hickory dickory mouse of mockery ran frequently up their clock.
Now, a number of the young men of the Great Burrow had lost patience, too. Through the Chink’s news broadcasts they had learned of mushrooming militancy among American Indians. They learned of Red Power and of reservations whose proud residents were freshly painted—
and armed to the teeth. In early spring of 1969 a quartet of bucks slipped away from the Great Burrow, venturing into the strange world beyond the still snowy mountains, to see for themselves. A couple of months later they returned, excited, feathered, beaded, buzzing of revolution.
Two comrades threw in with them and they deserted the Clock People to go face the white man on his own terms—and in his own time. The bucks called at the Chink’s shack on their way down the mountains. “You’re as tired as we are of sitting around waiting for a mother-fucking earthquake,” they said in the idiom they had recently adopted. “You’re strong and smart and have taught us much. Come with us and join the movement.”
“This movement of yours, does it have slogans?” inquired the Chink. “Right on!” they cried. And they quoted him some.
“Your movement, does it have a flag?” asked the Chink.
“You bet!” And they described their emblem.

“And does your movement have leaders?” “Great leaders.”
“Then shove it up your butts,” said the Chink. “I have taught you nothing.” He skipped down to the creek to gather watercress.
A few weeks later he accepted the invitation of an aged Siwash chief who was the principal outside confederate of the Clock People, a degenerated warlock who could turn urine into beer, to be initiated as a shaman, an honor that gave him rights of occupancy in the sacred cave on far-238
tomrobbins
away Siwash Ridge. At once he left for the Dakota hills to construct a clockworks whose ticks might more accurately echo the ticks of the universe, which, as he listened, sounded more and more like “ha ha ho and hee hee.”

64.
when you’re in the saddle all day, you need something to do with your mouth besides sing “Yippee eye oh ki yea.” Usually it’s too hot and dry for singing, anyhow. You just end up with a throat full of dust.
However, when you’re stuck in the saddle from dawn to dusk, you need something of an oral nature to keep you occupied and calm. That’s why so many cowboys chew tobacco or puff roll-yer-owns. That’s why it really is Marlboro Country.
But cowgirls of the New Age, they aren’t much into the tobacco habit. Gloria was mighty attached to the Pall Malls that dit-ditted to her in an endless dotted line from South Richmond, Virginia, and Big Red was prone to accept a chaw. On the whole, though, the gals had a non-preference for tobacco that was close to contempt, even if they did not agree with Debbie, who predicted, “When things really get too bad on the planet Earth and it starts to fall apart from wars and pollution and earthquakes and so forth, then Higher Beings are going to come in flying saucers and rescue the more evolved souls among us; but they can’t take smokers aboard their spaceships because people with nicotine in their systems explode when they enter the seventh dimension.”
At any rate, cowgirls need something to do with their mouths while riding herd, and this is what they do: they stick a butterscotch Life Saver in one cheek and a clove in the other. They seldom suck and never chew, but just cone v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 239
centrate on the mixture of juices that drips onto their ton-sils from the Life Saver and the clove, in a steady drip like rainwater running off the candied rooftops of Fairyland.
Now, aside from being calming and occupying, requiring no spitting and no assistance from the hands, a butterscotch Life Saver and a clove give a person the most interesting breath in the world.
It’s no wonder the Rubber Rose ladies were always kissing on each other, although what a cowgirl does with her mouth once she’s back at the bunkhouse

shouldn’t really concern us students of Western lore.
When there were thirty or more cowgirls riding for the Rubber Rose, sometimes the wheatgrass and the hills and the whole wide sky itself would start to smell like butterscotch and clove.
Sometimes the Chink would smell it way up on his ridge. Not when he first came to Dakota, of course. Then he could smell only pollen and sagebrush and wood-smoke and his own hairy self. Who was it once said, “A hermit is mysterious to everyone but the hermit.”

65.
when he first lit on siwash ridge, the Chink couldn’t catch a whiff of butterscotch/clove cowgirl breath or of Countess-gagging cowgirl snatch. Which is just as well, for had there been cowgirls then on the Rubber Rose range, they might have drawn his nose out of his own business. And he had business aplenty. The cave proved to be as wondrous as advertised, but enormous amounts of labor and ingenuity were required to adapt it to his lifestyle and make it comfortable for year-round residency. Moreover, he had a clockworks to assemble and that is not a simple task. In the process of readying 240
tomrobbins
the cave and planning his clockworks, he had also to ex-tricate himself from Clock People consciousness, because twenty-six years among the Indians of the Great Burrow had molded him more than he had realized when he set out again on his own.
The mass of humanity has minds like soft wax. Once an impression is made upon them, it won’t change until you change it for them. They are malleable but not self-malleable (a condition politicians and PR men use to sin-ister advantage). The Chink, however, was perfectly capable of reshaping his ball of tallow: it just took longer than he had anticipated.
When, four years later, he spoke of the Clock People to Sissy, it was with admiration, appreciation and amusement.
In times of widespread chaos and confusion, it has been the duty of more advanced human beings—artists, scientists, clowns and philosophers—to create order. In times such as ours, however, when there is too much order, too much management, too much programming and control, it becomes the duty of superior men and women to fling their favorite monkey wrenches into the machinery. To relieve the repression of the human spirit, they must sow doubt and disruption. The Chink snickered his hell-crazed snicker when he imagined the doubt and confusion that would follow society’s eventual discovery of the Clock People. He snickered even though he suspected that the encounter would destroy the Clock People, and even though he scorned the sickening democratic

more-is-better fallacy inherent in the notion that the part must be sacrificed for the whole.
“I loved those loony redskins,” the Chink said to Sissy.
“But I couldn’t be a party to their utopian dreaming. After a while it occurred to me that the Clock People waiting for the Eternity of Joy was virtually identical to the Christians waiting for the Second Coming. Or the Communists waiting for the worldwide revolution. Or the Debbies waiting for the flying saucers. All the same. Just e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 241
more suckers betting their share of the present on the future, banking every misery on a happy ending to history.
Well, history isn’t ever going to end, happily or unhappily. And history is ending every second—happily for some of us, unhappily for others, happily one second, unhappily the next. History is always ending and always not ending, and both ways there is nothing to wait for. Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.”
The shaggy old fart slid his arms around Sissy and . . . no, wait, she wasn’t telling Dr. Robbins that part. Yet.
Sometime in the course of things, the Chink had made it clear to Sissy that, while he might not buy the Clock People’s dreaming, he did respect the quality of their dream. The vision of an era, however lasting, during which all ritual would be personal and idiosyncratic, made the Chink’s heart want to stand up and dance. Furthermore, while a return engagement by Jesus appears as impossible as worldwide Marxist revolution is improba-ble, a general disruption of the planet by natural forces is inevitable. The Clock People had narrowed the apocalyptic credibility gap.
“In the end, though,” observed the Chink, “for all their insight, the Clock People were a collection of human animals banded together to prepare for better days. In short, just more victims of the disease of time.”
Ah, time! Back to time. Dr. Robbins struggled to sit upright. The wine had said its good-bys. He was a trifle drunk. His mustache could not deny it. Every so often, Dr. Goldman would appear at the French doors. This didn’t bother Dr. Robbins. Dr. Goldman would never have the courage to interrupt, not so long as

Sissy continued her exercises. Great digits wallowed in the garden air.
(Dr. Goldman’s face, as red and swollen as a smallpox vaccination, pressed to the pane. He saw the thumbs promenade stiffly in their suits of blushes. Then they began to quiver. They made wild and ultrarapid swoops, like water spiders on the surface of a pond. As he watched, a kind of radiant ectoplasm formed all around them. Sissy 242
tomrobbins
was smiling absently. Dr. Robbins lay, as if in adoration, at her feet. Dr. Goldman whirled abruptly and strode away.) In truth, Dr. Robbins was a bit more anxious than he might have appeared. His patient’s testimony had gradually become secondary to her hitch practice, her running of the scales. What had begun as casual muscle flex had escalated, as she lost self- consciousness, into a thorough in-ventory of the extravagant moves and motions stored in her gross appendages. Now she had fallen silent, absorbed in the piloting of her blimps. Dr. Robbins was agog at the display, but he wished, like old-fashioned novelists, to stay to the point, to keep the story flowing. You see, Dr.
Robbins had a theory that was apropos the clockworks and the Chink. It had long been Dr. Robbin’s belief that the central problem facing the human race was time.
As for defining time, or speculating upon its nature, forget it. Neither tipsy nor sober was he about to dance with the angels on the head of that pin. Since embarking upon a career in behavioral science, however, Dr. Robbins had searched to find at least one fundamental truth about the psyche, and the closest he had come to a fundamental was the discovery that most psychological—and, therefore, social, political and spiritual—problems can be linked to pressures exerted by time. Or, more precisely, civilized man’s idea of time.
Of course, he wasn’t absolutely sure that there were any problems. It was entirely possible that everything in the universe was perfect; that all that happened, from global warfare to a single case of athlete’s foot, happened because it ought to happen; and while from our perspective it would seem that something horrendous had gone wrong in the development of the human species, vis-à-vis its happy potentialities on the blue green sphere, that that was an

illusion attributable to myopia, and that, in fact, development was proceeding beautifully, running right as a Tokyo train, and needing only a more cosmic overview in order for its grand perfection to obscure its momentary fits and faults.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 243
That was a possibility, all right, one that Dr. Robbins had by no means ruled out. On the other hand, if such an approach was, like religion, merely a camouflage system created to modify experience in order to make life more tolerable— another exercise in escapism festooned with mystic crêpe—then one had no choice but to conclude that mankind was a royal fuck-up. Despite our awesome potential; despite the presence among us of the most extraordinary enlightened individuals, operating with intelligence, gentleness and style; despite a plethora of achievements that no other living creatures have come within a billion light- years of equaling, we were on the verge of destroying ourselves, internally and externally, and of taking the entire planet with us, crumpled in our tight little fists, as we shoot down the shit-chute to oblivion.
Now, if that be the case, one is compelled to ask what went wrong; how and when did it go wrong. The answer to that question of questions breathes on so many buds that the wimpy brain gets hay fever, its eyes puff shut, it sneezes away whole bouquets of hidden and half-guessed truths, and it probably doesn’t want to know anyway.
From his psychiatrist’s stance, however, a stance only slightly less allergic than any other, Dr. Robbins was able to venture this far:
Most of the harm inflicted by man upon his environment, his fellows and himself is due to greed.
Most of the greed (whether it be for power, property, attention or affection) is due to insecurity.
Most of the insecurity is due to fear.
And most of the fear is, at bottom, a fear of death.

Given time, all things are possible. But time may have a stop.
Why do people fear death so? Because they realize, unconsciously at least, that their lives are mere parodies of what living should be. They ache to quit playing at living and to really live, but, alas, it takes time and trouble to piece the loose ends of their lives together and they are dogged by the notion that time is running out.
244
tomrobbins
Was that it, or was the pebble in the dancing slipper the phobia that time does not have a stop? If we could live our average 70.4 years and know for certain that that was that, we could readily manage. We might complain that it was far too short, but what there was of life we could live freely, doing exactly what we pleased insofar as our conscience and capabilities allowed, accepting that when it was over it was over: easy come, easy go. Ah, but we aren’t allowed the luxury of finality. We dilute and hobble our most genuinely felt impulses with the idea, whether fervently held or naggingly suspected, that after death there is something else, and that that something may be endless, and that the correctness of our behavior in “this”
life may determine how we fare in the “next” one (and for those poor souls who believe in reincarnation, the ones after that).
Thus, whether it is in danger of stopping and catching us with our pants down, or whether it runs on forever and demands that we busy ourselves preparing for the next station on the long ride, either way, time prevents us from living authentically.
Perhaps the fault is that we are Dr. Frankensteins who have created time as a monster with three heads: past, present and future. In which case, back to the drawing board! The present is okay, the present is sharp and clean; leave it where it is, on top of and directing the body. But relegate the past to some other anatomical function. The past, for example, would make a perfect asshole. As for the future, let’s see, the future could be time’s . . .

Thumbs.
Like papier-mâché spaceships in an old Buck Rogers movie, they wooshed in a wobbly fashion toward imaginary worlds. She fueled them with rocket powder mined in her heart. She juggled them without ever letting go, tossing and catching them simultaneously, so that the shower of thumbs—that aerial ballet of warm pineapples—struck over and over again the same rods in the observer’s eye.
The hammered eye blinked beneath this banging of bub-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 245
bles. Thumbs tumbled end over end in the field of vision.
Thumbs wheeled and thumbs floated. Thumbs squirmed like the tickled bellies of babies. Thumbs spanked the bottom of the sky.
It was all Dr. Robbins could do not to surrender to the spectacle, to let thumbs carry him to wherever thumbs desired he go. After all, this was not a sight many had seen but he was a stubborn man with time on his hands. So, at last, he exclaimed, loudly enough to pierce his patient’s reverie, “Sissy, don’t keep me in suspense! What were the Chink’s thoughts about time? And how did he apply them to building his own clockworks?”
“Oh,” said Sissy, a trifle startled. “Oh yes.” She let her thumbs fall into her lap and bounce gently there. “Oh yes.
Well, you see, you must understand that the Chink doesn’t do a whole lot of talking. He says what he has to say very quickly and seldom repeats or explains himself. He’s more apt to be laughing and scratching than expounding ideas.
But if I humored him—and let him do what he wanted with me” (Sissy lowered her lashes)—“he would share a few of his thoughts. Now, I’m not sure what this has to do with time itself, but the Chink sees life as a dynamic network of interchanges and exchanges, spreading in all directions at once. And it’s all held together by the tension between opposites. He says there is order in Nature, but there is also disorder. And it is the balance of tensions between the order and the disorder, the natural laws and the natural randomness, that keeps it from completely collaps-ing. It’s a beautiful paradox, as he describes it. Personally, I don’t know. When I mentioned the concept to Julian, he just scoffed. Julian says

that everything in Nature is ordered and there is no randomness. The more we learn about the way Nature works, the more laws we discover.
Julian says there isn’t any paradox, that the only reason certain aspects of Nature seem disorderly to us is because we haven’t understood them yet. Julian says . . .”
“Julian doesn’t know his scrotum from Kentucky fried chicken,” grumbled Dr. Robbins. “I recognize that para-246
tomrobbins
dox the Chink was speaking of; it’s inside us as well as all around us. I went into psychiatry with the desire to help set people free. But I soon learned that man is stuck with a lot of conflicting behavioral and emotional traits that have a genetic basis. We have built-in contradictions; they’re standard equipment on all models. No matter how much people long to be free—even to the point of valuing freedom over happiness—an aversion to liberty is right there in their DNA. For eons of evolutionary time, our DNA has been whispering into the ears of our cells that we are, each one of us, the most precious things in the universe and that any action that entails the slightest risk to us may have consequences of universal importance. ‘Be careful, get comfortable, don’t make any waves,’ whispers the DNA. Conversely, the yearning for freedom, the risky belief that there is nothing to lose and nothing to gain, is also in our DNA. But it’s of much more recent evolutionary origin, according to me. It has arisen during the past couple of million years, during the rapid increase in brain size and intellectual capacity associated with our becoming human. But the desire for security, the will to survive, is of much greater antiquity. For the present, the conflicting yearnings in the DNA generate a basic paradox that in turn generates the character—nothing if not contradic-tory—of man. To live fully, one must be free, but to be free one must give up security. Therefore, to live one must be ready to die. How’s that for a paradox? But, since the genetic bent for freedom is comparatively recent, it may represent an evolutionary trend. We may yet outgrow our overriding obsession to survive. That’s why I encourage everyone to take chances, to court danger, to welcome anxiety, to flaunt insecurity, to rock every boat and always cut against the grain. By pushing it, goosing it along whenever possible, we may speed up the process, the process by which the need for playfulness and liberty becomes stronger than the need for comfort and security.

Then that paradox that the, er, Chink sees holding the show together may lose its equilibrium. What then, Mr.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 247
Chink, what then?” Dr. Robbins scratched his mustache with the stem of his Bulova, thereby simultaneously satisfying itch and winding watch. With time the central problem facing mankind, such efficiency had to be admired.
Sissy, soothing her thumbs, smiled. She liked that baby-faced junior shrink. In some ways, he even reminded her a little of the Chink. In other ways—dress and demeanor—
he reminded her of Julian. She supposed that he would be pleased by the former comparison, vexed by the latter. So she said:
“That’s fascinating. Not the kind of talk I expected to run into at the Goldman Clinic, I’ll tell you. You think a bit like the Chink yourself.”
“Is that so?”
“Yes, you do. Although I wouldn’t dare to presume to speak for the Chink, it sounds to me like you’re talking about the same paradox. Or, at least, a similar one. Well, to try to get back to your question . . . The Chink sees in the natural world a paradoxical balance of supreme order and supreme disorder. But man has a pronounced bias for order. He not only refuses to respect or even accept the disorder in Nature, in life; he shuns it, rages against it, attacks it with orderly programs. And in so doing, he perpetuates instability.”
“Hold on a minute,” called Dr. Robbins. He propped his Oxford cloth-shirted back against the stone bench upon which Sissy was sitting. “Let me make sure I’m with you. Wine made me fuzzy. You say—the Chink says—the bias for order leads to instability?”
“Right,” said Sissy. “For several reasons. First, worshiping order and hating disorder automatically shoves great portions of Nature and life into a hateful category.

Did you know that the center of the Earth is red-hot liquid covered with a hard crust, and that that crust is not a single unified layer but a whole jumbled series of shifting plates? These plates are about sixty miles thick and very plastic. They appear and disappear. They move around and buckle and bump into each other like epileptic domi-248
tomrobbins
noes. New mountains and new islands—once in a long while, new continents— are being created and old ones destroyed. New climates are being formed and old ones altered. The whole thing is in flux. Existing arrangements are temporary and constantly in threat of disruption. This whole big city of New York could be sucked into the Earth or quick-frozen or flattened or inundated—at any second. The Chink says the man who feels smug in an orderly world has never looked down a volcano.”
Dr. Robbins appeared a tad disappointed. Maybe it was the sun heating the wine in his eyes. “Yeah, I had a geology course in college,” he mumbled. “Geophysical turmoil is a reality, all right, but hardly a defense of disorder.
I mean, cancer—cellular turmoil—is a reality, too, but that doesn’t make it lovable or even acceptable.”
“True,” agreed Sissy. Her big digits had quieted down.
They lolled upon her thighs like exhausted sea cows run ragged by some cowgirls of the deeps. “True. That wasn’t the Chink’s point. He was saying simply that the vagrancies and violence of nature must be brought back into the foreground of social and political consciousness, that they have got to be embraced in any meaningful psychic renewal.”
“Yeah, yeah, okay.”
“But as for stability . . . In general, primitive man enjoyed great stability. It blew my mind to hear the Chink say that, but now I can see that it was true. Primitive culture was diverse, flexible and completely integrated with Nature at the level of the particular environment. Primitive man took from the land only what he needed, thus avoiding the hassles that result in modern economics from imbalances of scarcity and surplus. Hunting and gathering tribes worked only a few hours a week. To work more than that would have put a strain on the

environment, with which they related symbiotically. It was only among mobile cultures—after the unfortunate domestication of animals—that surplus, a result of overachievement, led to potlatches and competitive feasts—orgies of conspicuous e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 249
consumption and conspicuous waste—which attached to simple, healthy, effective economies the destructive elements of power and prestige. When that happened, stability was shattered. Civilization is a mutant beast that emerged from the shattered egg of primitive stability. Another thing about primitives; they deified forces of disorder as well as of order. In fact, the gods of wind and lava and lightning were often honored above the deities of more placid things— and not always out of fear.”
Still not satisfied, Dr. Robbins dragged his nails through the label on the empty wine bottle. “Interesting,”
he said. “Pretty interesting. But here you’ve got the Chink praising disorder on the one hand and stability on the other . . .”
“Exactly,” answered Sissy. “Disorder is inherent in stability. Civilized man doesn’t understand stability. He’s confused it with rigidity. Our political and economic and social leaders drool about stability constantly. It’s their favorite word, next to ‘power.’ ‘Gotta stabilize the political situation in Southeast Asia, gotta stabilize oil production and consumption, gotta stabilize student opposition to the government’ and so forth. Stabilization to them means order, uniformity, control. And that’s a half-witted and potentially genocidal misconception. No matter how thoroughly they control a system, disorder invariably leaks into it. Then the managers panic, rush to plug the leak and endeavor to tighten the controls. Therefore, totalitarianism grows in viciousness and scope. And the blind pity is, rigidity isn’t the same as stability at all. True stability results when presumed order and presumed disorder are balanced. A truly stable system expects the unexpected, is prepared to be disrupted, waits to be transformed. As a psychiatrist, wouldn’t you say that a stable individual accepts the inevitability of his death? Likewise, a stable culture, government or institution has built into it its own demise. It is open to change, open even to being overthrown. It is open, period. Gracefully open. That’s stability. That’s alive.”

250
tomrobbins
“Makes sense, makes good sense,” agreed Dr. Robbins, upon whose girl-next- door face a wine-stained mustache made little sense at all. Dr. Robbins’s mustache was the ruins of a lost city of hair discovered by archeologists in the Bald Mountains, or Dr. Robbins’s mustache was a fur coat worn by an eccentric widow to a picnic in Phoenix, Ari-zona, on the Fourth of July, or Dr. Robbins’s mustache was an obscene phone call to a deaf nun. “Yeah,” agreed Dr. Robbins, tugging at his mustache as if even he didn’t believe it. “I can fit that into my jigsaw puzzle. But time, Sissy; where do time and clockworks connect to this?”
“The Chink didn’t exactly say how they connected, but I think I’ve got it figured out.” Sissy pulled a scrap of paper from a jumpsuit pocket. “A physicist named Edgar Lip-worth wrote this,” she explained. “He writes, ‘The time of physics is defined and measured by a pendulum whether it is the pendulum of a grandfather’s clock, the pendulum of the Earth’s rotation around the sun, or the pendulum of the precessing electron in the nuclear magnetic field of the hydrogen maser. Time, therefore, is defined by periodic motion—that is, by motion related to a point moving uniformly around a circle.’ Got that?”
“Sure,” said Dr. Robbins. “And there’s the pendulum of the heart beating, the pendulum of the lungs breathing, the pendulum of music finding its beat . . .”
“Those too. Right. Okay, then, civilized man is infatu-ated with the laws he finds in Nature, clings almost franti-cally to the order he sees in the universe. So he has based the symbologies, the psychological models with which he hopes to understand his life, upon his observations of natural law and order. Pendulum time is orderly time, the time of a lawfully uniform universe, the time of cyclic synthesis. That’s okay as far as it goes. But pendulum time is not the whole time. Pendulum time doesn’t relate to trillions of the moves and acts of existence. Life is both cyclic and arbitrary, but pendulum time relates only to the part that’s cyclic.”
“Although the manner in which we relate to pendulum e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 251
time is often arbitrary, too,” threw in Dr. Robbins. He thought of the arbitrary dial of a clock and how certain arbitrary numbers on that dial, such as nine and

five and noon and midnight have been left dog-eared by undue emphasis.
“Yes, I reckon so,” said Sissy. “But the point is, although a lot of our experience occurs outside of, or relates only artificially and tenuously to, pendulum time, we still envision time only in pendulum terms, in terms of continuous compulsory rotation. Even the Clock People’s hourglass; it wasn’t designed for perfect accuracy or anything, but it was modeled upon an orderly flow. It clung to the frayed edges of a time its builders wanted to transcend.
The catfish pool came closer to measuring the ‘other’ time of life, but its limitations . . .”
“Sissy.” “Yes.”
Dr. Robbins had spotted Dr. Goldman at the French doors again. “What is the Chink’s clockworks like?” he asked.
“Ha ha,” laughed Sissy. “Criminey. You wouldn’t believe it. It’s just a bunch of junk. Garbage can lids and old saucepans and lard tins and car fenders, all wired together way down in the middle of the Siwash cave. Every now and then, this contraption moves—a bat will fly into it, a rock will fall on it, an updraft will catch it, a wire will rust through, or it’ll just move for no apparently logical reason—and one part of it will hit against another part.
And it’ll go bonk or poing and that bonk or that poing will echo throughout the caverns. It might go bonk or poing five times in a row. Then a pause; then one more time. After that, it might be silent for a day or two, maybe a month. Then the clock’ll strike again, say twice. Following that there could be silence for an entire year—or just a minute or so. Then, POING! so loud you nearly jump out of your skin. And that’s the way it goes. Striking freely, crazily, at odd intervals.”
Sissy closed her eyes, as if listening for the distant bonk
 
 252
tomrobbins
or poing, and Dr. Robbins, ignoring Dr. Goldman’s gestures from the French doors, seemed to be listening, too.
They listened. They heard.
They were assured then, together, the psychiatric intern and his patient, that there was a rhythm, a strange un-noted rhythm, that might or might not be beating out their lives for them. For each of us.
Because to measure time by the clockworks is to know that you are moving toward some end . . . but at a pace far different from the one you might think!

66.
d r . r o b b i n s had had all the food for thought he could stomach at one sitting. He wished to be home alone with another bottle of wine. He dismissed his patient politely. Then, in order to avoid Dr. Goldman, left the clinic by scrambling over the garden wall, tearing, in the process, a knee out of his thirty- dollar slacks.
Sissy Hankshaw Gitche, who never had talked so extensively before in her life, was weary and glad to be excused.
Men of ideas, men such as Julian, the Chink and now Dr.
Robbins, intrigued her. But she welcomed the chance to go to her room and dream of cowgirls, while, with a cube of unsalted kosher butter from the clinic dining room, she greased the creases in her thumbs.
Julian Gitche failed to visit or phone his wife upon that day in May. Julian had just contracted to paint a series of
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 253
watercolors for a West German pharmaceutical house, the firm that once manufactured thalidomide. He was entertaining a representative of the firm and he feared that any whisper of his spouse’s physical peculiarities might evoke for the former thalidomide salesman embarrassing memories.
The Chink hoofed into Mottburg that morning to purchase yams and a can of Chun King water chestnuts. His devotion to yams was unflagging, but he increasingly looked to the water chestnut as an example of endurance, of will and of fidelity to the particular. The water chestnut, after all, is the only
   
vegetable whose texture doesn’t change after freezing, changeth not after being cooked.
The Countess spent the day in his laboratory, laboring feverishly to develop an antipheromone. A pheromone is an air-borne hormone given off by the female animal, bird or insect to attract a male of her species. The human pheromone had only recently been isolated. The Countess hoped to produce and market a pill that, ingested periodically, would counteract human pheromone activity, eliminating all prurient odors from that part of the female anatomy the writer Richard Condon has so beautifully described as “the vertical smile.” (To Richard Condon, a dozen purple asters and a pound of goat cheese from Even Cowgirls Get the Blues.) Bonanza Jellybean rode Lucas out to Siwash Lake to see if the whoopers were still there. They were! She celebrated by sticking a feather in her hat, though she’d be damned if she’d call it macaroni.
254
tomrobbins
The author (who is also one of the above—which one doesn’t matter) would like to take this opportunity, here at the conclusion of Sissy’s remarkable account of Clock People and clockworks, to advance an earthquake theory of his own. As the author sees it, the Earth is God’s pin-ball machine and each quake, tidal wave, flash flood and volcanic eruption is the result of a tilt that occurs when God, cheating, tries to win free games.
  
67.
the following morning, Dr. Robbins sent for Sissy early, before Dr. Goldman had a chance to get at her.
Again he escorted her into the little walled garden, although this time without a bottle of wine. As a matter of fact, Dr. Robbins’s blue eyes were being squashed by about a hundred pounds of hangover.
“Okay,” he said softly, wishing not to agitate the puni-tive and vindictive deities of fermentation, “tell me how you met the Chink.”
“I met him at the can-dee sto-ore,” sang Sissy. “No, seriously. I’m thankful to have an opportunity to talk to someone safe—trustworthy, you know—about the Chink, but aren’t you supposed to be asking me about . . . about the reasons I’m in this institution?”
“I haven’t the slightest interest in your personal problems,” snapped Dr. Robbins, inwardly cursing the chemical Calvinism that causes alcohol to make us suffer for the good times it gives us.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 255
“Oh? Well, my husband is spending quite a sum of money to have my personal
problems aired at this clinic.”
“Your husband is a fool. As for you, if you let yourself be subjected to the indignities of psychoanalysis, you’re a fool as well. And Goldman is certainly a fool for sending you to me. I, however, am no fool. You’ve told me some of the most fascinating stories I’ve heard in a long while.
I’m sure as hell not going to waste these sunny hours among the flowers listening to your dreary personal problems when I could be hearing more about your adventures with the Chink. Now. Tell me how you met him.
And don’t hesitate to, uh, to perform the, er, the antics you do with your thumbs.

If you’d like.”
“But won’t that attract attention?” Without the wine to encourage her, Sissy was hesitant to repeat the digital abandon of the day before.
“Sometimes,” said Dr. Robbins, glancing with blood-shot peepers at the French doors, “sometimes those things that attract the most attention to us are the things that afford us the greatest privacy.” He flopped in the grass.
“Doctor,” said Sissy with a smile, “forgive me but I get the impression that you’re a bit of a mental case yourself.”
“It takes one to know one,” replied Robbins. “That’s probably why all the penguins ended up at the South Pole.”

68.
par t badlands butte, part grasslands hill, part high chaparral, Siwash Ridge is a geological mutant, a schizo-phrenic formation embodying in one relatively small mountain several of the most prominent features of the American West. A willy twisting and unpredictable trail zigs and zags up its eastern side, through thickets of scrub oak and juniper, upward over grassy bumps, finally cling-256
tomrobbins
ing by its shoelaces to limestone walls. The top of Siwash, though disposed in a few places to jut and peak, is very nearly flat: a calcium carbonate aircraft carrier, a ship that water built from land.
Toward the center of the butte top is a horse-deep, circular depression that in fair weather serves the Chink as a sunken living room. From the northern wall of the depression gapes the mouth of a cave.
A person of Sissy’s height has to crawl into the cave on her hands and knees, and almost nowhere in the entrance chamber—covered with Japanese straw matting—is there room for a leggy model to stand up straight. The entrance chamber, however, is merely the top level of three levels of caverns. The bottom level, deep inside the butte, consists of two freight car-sized rooms, heated by thermal updrafts and remarkably dry. On the middle level, there are five or six enormous chambers, connected by narrow passageways. In one of these chambers is the clockworks.
From the walls of the middle-level room, fresh pure water drips constantly. It is as if the walls are weeping. It is as if the soul of the continent is weeping.
Why does it weep? It weeps for the bones of the buffalo. It weeps for magic that has been forgotten. It weeps for the decline of poets.
It weeps
for the black people who think like white people. It weeps

for the Indians who think like settlers. It weeps
for the children who think like adults. It weeps
for the free who think like prisoners. Most of all, it weeps
for the cowgirls who think like cowboys.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 257

69.
her thumbs had stopped him. Her thumbs were good at that. If the man who cried “Stop the world, I want to get off!” had only had Sissy’s thumbs . . .
She had stopped him cold on the side of Siwash Ridge. So, what next? He wore the wary look of a wild animal.
He wouldn’t stay stopped long. It was her move. What could she say? His gaze went through her like beavers through a paper palm tree. His was the look of the strong who will not tolerate weaklings. She must speak and she must speak with prehensility, for not even her thumbs would stop him a second time. It was imperative that she say the right thing. He was turning as if to scamper off again.
“Well,” said Sissy, with what passed for nonchalance. “Aren’t you going to shake your whanger at me?”
It broke him up. He slapped his thighs and giggled hysterically. Ha has, ho hos and hee hees squirted out of his nose and through the gaps in his teeth. When the laughter finally died a nervous chipmunk death, he spoke. “Follow me,” he said, in a voice unaccustomed to invitation. “I’ll fix you supper.”
Follow him she did, although he set a powerful pace up the tricky twilit trail. “I’m a friend of Bonanza Jellybean’s,” she said between puffs.
“I know who you are,” he said without looking back.
“Oh? Well, there’s been some trouble on the ranch. I came up here to get out of the way. It’s so dark now I doubt if I could find my way back down. If you could help . . .”
“Save your breath for the climb,” he said. His voice wore no pants.

258
tomrobbins
From the top of the butte there could still be seen light in the west. The haunted shapes of the badlands were silhouetted navy blue against a pumpkin-colored horizon.
To the east, across shadowed hills, the prairie lay on its back in the dark, hidden, yet making felt its awesome flatness, a flatness that flavors so much of America, beginning with her emotions and her taste; a flatness that makes a perfect surface for those wheels of Detroit whose rota-tions are for millions the only escape from the chronically flat. Sissy turned from east to west and back again. The faintly lit badlands were so tortured and melodramatic they seemed, like the prose in a Dostoyevsky novel, almost a corny joke. The blacked-out prairie, on the other hand, had a style identical to that of rural weekly newspapers throughout the middle of the nation: blandness in such high concentration as to become finally poisonous.
An owl flew over the ridge from Crime and Punishment to the Mottburg Gazette, scanning the pages for a literate rodent, asking the librarian for a whooo-done-it.
Directly below them, lights twinkled at the Rubber Rose. The ranch was quiet. Sissy could imagine showers running full blast in the bunkhouse as glossy pubes, folded labia and hooded clitorises were lathered and scrubbed clean of the perfume that had been allowed to accumulate to plague the Countess. Sissy imagined she heard popping washcloths, girlish laughter.
When she had caught her breath, Sissy was led to the depression and down a ladder of sticks. The Chink built a fire, an open fire, the depression itself being adequate protection from winds. He roasted yams. He heated meadowlark stew. The stew contained Chun King water chestnuts. Their texture did not change in the cooking.
A lesson.
After supper, eaten in silence upon a rough wooden bench, the Chink went into the cave and returned with a tiny peppermint-striped plastic transistor radio. He switched it on. Their auditory nerves were immediately jangled by “The Happy

Hour Polka.” Still clutching the e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 259 radio in one hand, the Chink hopped into the wheel of firelight and began to
dance.
Sissy in her travels had never seen anything quite like it.
The old geezer heeled and toed, skipped and hopped. He flung his bones; he flung his beard. “Yip! Yip!” he yo-deled. “Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.” Arms swimming, feet firecrackering, he danced through two more polka records and might have had a fourth except that the music was suspended for a news report. The international situation was desperate, as usual.
“Personally, I prefer Stevie Wonder,” confessed the Chink, “but what the hell. Those cowgirls are always bitching because the only radio station in the area plays nothing but polkas, but I say you can dance to anything if you really feel like dancing.” To prove it, he got up and danced to the news.
When the music commenced again with “The Lawrence Welk is a Hero of the Republic Polka,” the Chink lifted Sissy by her shoulders and guided her onto his pock-marked dance floor. “But I don’t know how to polka,” she protested.
“Neither do I,” said the Chink. “Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.” In a second they were traipsing over the limestone, arm in arm. Their shadows reeled against the curves of the depression. Night birds flew past with trembling feathers.
A bat fluttered out of the cave, took one radar reading and headed for Kenny’s Castaways.
When they had danced their fill, the Chink escorted Sissy to the opposite, and darkest, side of the depression and sat her down upon a pile of soft stuff: dried wheatgrass, faded Indian blankets and old down pillows without cases. The stuff reeked. It was that unmistakable sex blend of mushrooms, chlorine and tide pool. And cutting through that odor, the equally unmistakable smell of Bonanza Jellybean: clove, butterscotch Life Savers and a lo-tion made from cactus juices, which she rubbed daily upon the spot where she had been shot, so she said, by a silver bullet.

260
tomrobbins
“So this is how Jelly spends her visits to the Chink,”
thought Sissy. She started to wonder whether the other cowgirls, manless as they were, suspected—but halfway through that wonder she interrupted it to wonder if the Chink thought he was going to help himself to her. She had always been passive when it came to being pawed, pinched and the like, but no man had ever taken her against her will. In fact, no man had ever taken her but Julian.
Just then the Chink did an astonishing thing. Without preamble, without hesitation, the white-maned Jap reached out and grasped her thumbs! He squeezed them, caressed them, covered them with wet kisses. All the while, he cooed to them, telling them how beautiful and exceptional and incomparable they were. Not even Julian had ever done that, you bet. Even Jack Kerouac hadn’t dared touch her thumbs, although he had been fascinated by them and had written to them a poem on a cornhusk, an ode that might have been widely published had not it been eaten by a hungry hobo as Kerouac and the boys boxcared into Denver to search for Neal Cassady’s daddy, the most missing man in the history of American letters, leaving it up to this author to tell the story of those awesome appendages.
Even Bonanza Jellybean hadn’t loved Sissy’s thumbs.
As we might imagine, Sissy was bowled over. She was frightened, stunned, elated, moved almost to tears. Apparently sincere, the Chink extended his adoration of the digits far into the night. When at last he got around to adoring the rest of her, her heart, like her thumbs, was aglow.
“If this be adultery, make the most of it,” she cried. As he plunged into her, she arched her spread bottom against the blankets and reared up to meet him halfway.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 261

70.
“so, you had sexual intercourse with the old man?” asked Dr. Robbins. “Repeatedly,” blushed Sissy.
“And how was it? I mean, how do you feel about it now?”
“Er, I’m not really sure. You see, sex with Julian is like hitching a ride around the block on a fire engine. With the Chink, it was like hitching from Chicago to Salt Lake City in a big old nineteen fifty-nine Buick Roadmaster.” She paused to ascertain if her similes had been understood. Dr.
Robbins was pulling and releasing his mustache, pulling and releasing, as if his mustache were a window shade in a cheap hotel. The window shade wouldn’t hang the way Dr. Robbins wanted it to.
Sissy decided to elucidate.
“With Julian, it’s fast and furious. It’s always been sort of desperate. There’s such need. We cling to each other, like we were holding on with our genitals to keep from falling into emptiness, a kind of lonely void. I have a feeling that it’s like that with a lot of lovers. But with the Chink, it was completely relaxed and smooth and slow and, well, nasty. He giggled and grinned and scratched all the time, and could go for ages without orgasm. A real Roadmaster. Once, he ate yam pudding while he was balling me. Fed it to me, too—with his fingers. He licked it off my nipples; I licked it off his balls. I felt like we were a couple of baboons or something. I liked it. I guess I miss it. But no more than I miss it with Jellybean.”
“You mean . . . ?” “Yes.”
262

tomrobbins
“I see. Umm. Well, let’s stick to the Chink. During those three days of . . . of, er, lovemaking . . .”
“It was lovemaking, Doctor. Even though it was nasty.
Maybe especially because it was nasty. Love is smutty business, you know.”
Dr. Robbins pulled hard on the mustache window shade. It came down with such force it nearly tore loose from its roller. “The old geezer really made you feel something, didn’t he?”
“How could I help feeling something? He adored my thumbs.”
Dr. Robbins looked hard at Sissy’s preaxial digits, then at his own. Magnitude was the only appreciable difference. In both sets of thumbs, Sissy’s and his own, Dr.
Robbins could see shafts, flat on the volar surface, smooth and rounded on the dorsal surface, that is, semicylindrical in shape. He knew that these bones were bound together with ligaments and cartilages. He remembered that the thumb joint is officially called the carpometacarpal joint, although it is informally referred to as the “saddle joint.”
Saddle joint. That’s nice. Cowgirls could relate to that.
He knew that when Sissy bent a phalanx, revolving took place around an axis passing transversely, determining the movement in a sagittal plane, just as it did when he bent a phalanx. It was just more of a production number with Sissy, that was all.
With effort he could harken back to med school and recall the musculature of the thumb, thinking that a flexor pollicis brevis is a flexor pollicis brevis, regardless of its size.
But then Dr. Robbins looked at his patient’s thumbs again—and suddenly the difference seemed more extensive than scale. He saw a pair of hammerhead sharks, devouring with a sharkish hunger the space around them.

He blinked, and in the blinking the sharks were replaced by a couple of pears, full and luscious, swaying there in their outsized sweetness as if Cézanne had painted them on a canvas of air. Again he blinked, and . . .
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 263
Sissy noticed his blinking; perceived the unsatisfactory comparison. “Maybe, Doctor,” she said, “my thumbs have known poetry and yours have not.” She paused. “Or maybe it’s simply this: you have thumbs; I am thumbs.”
The shade shot to the top of the window, wrapping itself noisily around its roller. “During those three days of lovemaking,” resumed Dr.
Robbins, the stubborn bastard, “the hermit obviously talked to you. He told you about his background and something of his philosophy. You’ve graciously shared his words with me . . .”
“I needed to talk about him to somebody. I need to talk about Jellybean, too.”
“Right. Right. We’ll get to her. But I’m curious. Did he say anything else? Did he say anything about uh, well, about life, anything further about, anything that I might . . .”
Sissy smiled. A skinny bumblebee with Con Edison soot on its fur cruised her psychiatrist’s mustache (perhaps a few of the hairs were still sticky with wine), but Robbins paid it no mind. Dr. Goldman was standing in the French doors (perhaps gathering courage to finally interrupt this interview), but Robbins ignored him, too.
Sissy’s smile broadened. “The Chink said that some people run after sages the way others run after gold. He said we’ve produced a generation of spiritual panhandlers, begging for coins of wisdom, banging like bums on every closed door. He said if an old man moves into a shack or a cave and lets his beard grow, people will flock from miles around just to read his no trespassing signs.
“Is that why you’re so interested in the Chink, Doctor?

Do you think he knows something that the rest of the world doesn’t? Something that can contribute to our salvation?”
Turning loose the shade, letting it hang any way it damn well pleased, Dr. Robbins retorted, “No, no, a thousand times no! In the first place, I distrust completely any man who holds himself up as an answer to those who 264
tomrobbins
can’t find the inner resources to overcome their own sense of time-entrapment and loneliness. In the second place, I’m not the least concerned with salvation because I’m not convinced there’s anything to be saved from. My position is this: I’m a psychiatrist who has been betrayed by the brain. That’s akin to an astronomer betrayed by starlight.
Or a cook betrayed by garlic. Nevertheless, I have developed an outlook on life that amounts to both a form of wisdom and a means of survival. It isn’t perfected yet, but it gets me by—and to those very rare patients who possess the guts and imagination to pick up on it, it might set a helpful example. Any psychiatrist or psychologist whose own life isn’t happy and whole enough to be exemplary isn’t worth the hide it takes to upholster his couch. He ought to be horsewhipped and sued for malpractice. But, to return to the point, as soon as you began to speak of the Chink, I sensed a rapport, an overview similar—
perhaps—to my own. Maybe he has notions about the ebb and flow of the cosmic custard that are improvements upon mine. Maybe not. If not, c’est la frigging vie. If so, if might be beneficial to both of us, you and me, to rap about them. It sure as hell beats talking about ‘inverted compensation.’ ”
“In that case,” said Sissy, obviously pleased, “I’d be pleased. To be honest, I don’t know whether the Chink has anything of value to offer or not. He didn’t claim to, but that could have been a coverup. I’ll tell you as much as I can remember of our conversations, such as they were, and you can judge for yourself. Fair enough?”
“Let ’er rip,” said Dr. Robbins, as if speaking of the window shade that hung in tatters from his upper lip.

e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 265

71.
prairie. Isn’t that a pretty word? Rolls off the tongue like a fat little moon. Prairie must be one of the prettiest words in the English language. No matter that it’s French.
It’s derived from the Latin word for “meadow” plus a feminine suffix. A prairie, then, is a female meadow. It is larger and wilder than a masculine meadow (which the dictionary defines as “pasture” or “hayfield”), more coarse, more oceanic and enduring, supporting a greater variety of life.
If the prairie may be compared topographically to a rug, then the Dakota hills are prairie with bowling balls under the rug. The flora and fauna of the Dakota hills are much the same as those of the prairie that adjoins them.
From a cliff high above, the Chink was pointing out to Sissy some of the organisms that choose to live in those hills. He pointed out different kinds of grasses: wheatgrass and little bluestem, June grass and dropseed, needle-grass and side-oats grama. He pointed out flowers: asters and goldenrod, snakeroot and cone flowers, prairie roses and purple clover. He said clover was delicious; he ate it often for breakfast, grazing in it like a goat. He pointed out prairie dog villages and badger rathskellers. He pointed out where they could find a coyote or a golden eagle if they needed one. He pointed out where his meadowlark traps were set, and the rocks where the best frying-size rattlesnakes hung out. The Chink pointed out the habitats of rabbits and burrowing owls, weasels and grouse. Although the millions of little eyeballs certainly could not be seen from Siwash Ridge, the hills were micey and the Chink told Sissy of mice, too: deer mice, meadow mice, harvest mice, pocket mice and kangaroo rats. The 266
tomrobbins
Chink must have spoken, intimately, of every creature that lived in the Dakota hills (not to mention those that, like the whooping cranes, were just passing through) except one. Cowgirls.
“What’s the problem with you and the cowgirls?”

asked Sissy eventually. They were perched directly above the Rubber Rose. It looked like a toy ranch from there, a miniature that might have been carved by Norman the pastry chef, had he but toes enough and time. “Why aren’t you more friendly to them?” The Chink only shrugged. His gaze was focused on Siwash Lake, where several more whooper flights had joined the early arrivals.
“You obviously get along with Jellybean, that horny little sneak. And poor Debbie thinks you’re some kind of god. But most of the girls agree with Delores. Delores says you’re a god, all right. She says the way you sit up here so high and mighty is just like our big daddy macho God: paranoid, ill-tempered and totally aloof.”
The shaggy Jap snickered. “Delores is right about God,” he said. “He’s best known by his absence. Judaeo-Christian culture owes its success to the fact that Jehovah never shows his face. What better way to control the masses than through fear of an omnipotent force whose authority can never be challenged because it is never direct?”
“But you aren’t like that.”
“Of course I’m not like that. I’m a man, not a god. And if I were a god, I wouldn’t be Jehovah. The only similarity between Jehovah and me is that we’re bachelors. Jehovah almost alone of the ancient gods never married. Never even went out on a date. No wonder he was such a neurotic, authoritative prick.”
“But look at you,” Sissy insisted. “People come from all over to seek your help and you won’t let them within forty yards.”
“What makes you think I have anything helpful to give them?”
Sissy wheeled on him, turning her slender back to the e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t
h e b l u e s 267
hills and prairie. “You’ve told me lots of wonderful things. Don’t be coy! You may not be an oracle—I don’t know—but you’re wise enough to help these people who seek you out, if you chose to.”
“Well, I don’t choose to.”
“Why not?” By then Sissy was so full of Chink semen she squished when she

walked. She felt she had a right to probe his personality.
The old hermit sighed, though the grin never left his lips. “Look,” he said, “these young people who seek me out, they’re wrong about me. They’re looking at me through filters that distort what I am. They hear that I live in a cave on a butte, so they jump to the conclusion that I lead a simple life. Well, I don’t and I won’t and I wouldn’t.
Simplicity is for simpletons!” The Chink underscored that remark by tossing a fair-sized chunk of limestone over the cliff. Look out deer mice! meadow mice! harvest mice! pocket mice! kangaroo rats! Look out below!
“Life isn’t simple; it’s overwhelmingly complex. The love of simplicity is an escapist drug, like alcohol. It’s an antilife attitude. These ‘simple’ people who sit around in drab clothes in bleak rooms sipping peppermint tea by candlelight are mocking life. They are unwittingly on the side of death. Death is simple but life is rich. I embrace that richness, the more complicated the better. I revel in disorder and . . .”
“But your cave isn’t disorderly,” protested Sissy. “It’s neat and clean.”
“I’m not a slob, if that’s what you mean. Slobs don’t love disorder. They’re ineffectual people who are disorderly because they can’t help themselves. It’s not the same. I set my cave in order knowing that life’s disorder will only mess it up again. That’s beautiful, that’s right, that’s part of the paradox. The beauty of simplicity is the complexity it attracts . . .”
“The beauty of simplicity, you say? Then you do find value in simplicity. You’ve contradicted yourself.” Julian had taught Sissy to sniff out contradictions.
268
tomrobbins
“Of course I’ve contradicted myself. I always do. Only cretins and logicians don’t contradict themselves. And in their consistency, they contradict life.”

Hmmm. Sissy wasn’t getting anywhere at all. Maybe she ought to back up and come in from a different angle.
Thumbs were of no help here. “How else do the pilgrims misjudge you?” It was the best question she could muster at the moment.
“Well, because I’ve lived in wilderness most of my adult life, they automatically conclude that I am gaga over Nature. Now ‘Nature’ is a mighty huge word, one of those sponge words so soaked with meanings that you can squeeze out interpretations by the bucketful; and needless to say Nature on many levels is my darling, because Nature, on many levels, is the darling. I was lucky enough to rediscover at a fairly early age what most cultures have long forgotten; that every aster in the field has an identity just as strong as my own. Don’t think that didn’t change my life. But Nature is not infallible. Nature makes mistakes. That’s what evolution is all about: growth by trial and error. Nature can be stupid and cruel. Oh, my, how cruel! That’s okay. There’s nothing wrong with Nature being dumb and ugly because it is simultaneously—paradoxically— brilliant and superb. But to worship the natural at the exclusion of the unnatural is to practice Organic Fascism—which is what many of my pilgrims practice.
And in the best tradition of fascism, they are totally intolerant of those who don’t share their beliefs; thus, they foster the very kinds of antagonism and tension that lead to strife, which they, pacifists one and all, claim to abhor.
To insist that a woman who paints berry juice on her lips is somehow superior to the woman who wears Revlon lipstick is sophistry; it’s smug sophistical skunkshit. Lipstick is a chemical composition, so is berry juice, and they both are effective for decorating the face. If lipstick has advantages over berry juice then let us praise that part of technology that produced lipstick. The organic world is e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 269
wonderful, but the inorganic isn’t bad, either. The world of plastic and artifice offers its share of magical surprises.”
The Chink picked up his candy-striped plastic transistor radio and kissed it—not as passionately as he lately had been kissing Sissy, but almost.
“A thing is good because it’s good,” he continued, “not because it’s natural. A thing is bad because it’s bad, not because it’s artificial. It’s not a damn iota better to be bitten by a rattlesnake than shot by a gun. Unless it’s with a silver bullet.

Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.”
“But . . .” said Sissy. Sissy said “but” while sitting on her butt on a butte. The poetic possibilities of the English language are endless.
“But,” said Sissy, “how can you criticize the misconceptions of your pilgrims when you do nothing to correct them? People are eager for the truth, but you won’t give them a chance.”
The Chink shook his head. He was exasperated, but continued to grin. His teeth caught the sunlight like spurs.
He would die with his boots on.
“What kind of chance are they giving me?” he asked. “A chance to be another Meher Baba, another Guru Maharaj Ji, another bloody Jesus? Thanks but, no thanks. I don’t need it, they don’t need it, the world doesn’t need it.”
“The world doesn’t need another Jesus?” Sissy had never felt much craving for Jesus, personally, but she assumed that for other people he was ice cream and pie.
“Most definitely not! No more Oriental therapists.”
Rising and stretching, pulling some of the tangles out of his beard, the Chink motioned with his head. “See those short sunflowers growing way over there near the lake?
Those are Jerusalem artichokes. When properly prepared, the roots taste a bit like yams.” He smacked his lips. Obviously, he had tired of their dialogue.
Sissy’s curiosity, however, had suffered pique. She persisted. “What do you mean, Oriental therapists?”
“Oriental therapists,” repeated the Chink, uninterest-270 tomrobbins
edly. He reached into his robe, pulled out several juniper berries and began to juggle them expertly. Too bad the Ed Sullivan Show was off the air.

“What does Oriental therapy have to do with Jesus?”
Sissy asked. “Or with you?” She smiled at the cascading juniper berries so that he would know she wasn’t indifferent to his talents.
In group formation the berries followed the rock over the edge of the precipice. Mice, don’t forget to wear your hard hats! “Well, if you can’t figure it out for yourself . . .” said the Chink. “Meher Baba, Guru Maharaj Ji, Jesus Christ and all the other holy men who amassed followers in recent times have had one gimmick in common.
Each of them demanded unquestioning devotion. ‘Love me with all your heart and soul and strength and do my bidding without fail.’ That has been the common requirement. Well, great. If you can love someone with that completeness and that purity, if you can devote yourself totally and unselfishly to someone—and that someone is a benevolent someone—then your life cannot help being the better for it. Your very existence can be transformed by the power of it, and the peace of mind it engenders will persist as long as you persist.
“But it’s therapy. Marvelous therapy, wonderful therapy, ingenious therapy, but only therapy. It relieves symptoms, ignores disease. It doesn’t answer a single universal question or put a person one step closer to ultimate truth.
Sure, it feels good and I’m for anything that feels good. I won’t knock it. But let nobody kid himself: spiritual devotion to a popular teacher with an ambiguous dogma is merely a method of making experience more tolerable, not a method of understanding experience or even of accurately describing it.
“In order to tolerate experience, a disciple embraces a master. This sort of reaction is understandable, but it’s neither very courageous nor very liberating. The brave and liberating thing to do is to embrace experience and tolerate e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 271
the master. That way we might at least learn what it is we are experiencing, instead of camouflaging it with love.
“And if your master truly loved you, he would tell you that. In order to escape the bonds of earthly experience, you bind yourself to a master. Bound is bound. If your master really loved you, he would not demand your devotion. He would set you free—from himself, first of all.

“You think I’m behaving like a cold-hearted ogre because I turn people away. Quite the contrary. I’m merely setting my pilgrims free before they become my disciples.
That’s the best I can do.”
Sissy nodded in appreciation. “That’s fine; that sincerely is fine. The only problem is, your pilgrims don’t know that.”
“Well, it’s up to them to figure it out. Otherwise I’d be dishing them the same precooked and packaged pap.
Everybody has got to figure out experience for himself.
I’m sorry. I realize that most people require externalized, objective symbols to hang on to. That’s too bad. Because what they are looking for, whether they know it or not, is internalized and subjective. There are no group solutions!
Each individual must work it out for himself. There are guides, all right, but even the wisest guides are blind in your section of the burrow. No, all a person can do in this life is to gather about him his integrity, his imagination and his individuality—and with these ever with him, out front and in sharp focus, leap into the dance of experience.
“Be your own master!
“Be your own Jesus!
“Be your own flying saucer! Rescue yourself. “Be your own valentine! Free the heart!”
Upon the sunny rock on which she sat in her semen-stained panties Sissy was very quiet. She supposed she had been given a lot to think about. There was, however, one more question on her mind, and eventually she asked it.
“You use the word ‘freedom’ fairly regularly,” she began. “Exactly what does freedom mean to you?”

272
tomrobbins
The Chink’s reply was swift. “Why, the freedom to play freely in the universe, of course.”
With that, he reached out and grabbed the elastic band that moored Sissy’s underpants to her hips. She raised her legs and in one smooth motion, he pulled her panties off—and flung them over the edge of the cliff. In the Dakota mouse world, it was quite a day for aerial phe-nomena.

72.
maybe the clouds just got sick of all the publicity. Posing for Ansel Adams’s big camera had been okay; the landscape artists who had painted them had been sympathetic and discreet; even their appearance in occasional movies, floating unobtrusively in the background while cowboys and soldiers did their manly deeds, had less offended the clouds than amused them. But now these weather satel-lites, these paparazzi of outer space, following them everywhere they went, photographing them constantly, giving them no peace or privacy, their pictures in the papers every single day! They knew how Jackie felt. And Liz. Maybe the clouds just got sick and tired of it. Maybe they ducked under the South Pole, in dark glasses and wigs, for a well-deserved vacation.
At any rate, not a cloud had been seen over the American plains in about two weeks. The seasonette known as Indian summer persisted. A sky as open and dry as the brain is wrinkled and goopy stretched above the Dakota hills, permitting sunlight to warm, uninterrupted save by night, the long feathers of resting whooping cranes, the jubilant faces of postrevolutionary cowgirls and the rectal tissues of Sissy Gitche.
Although her mind was aware that Marie Barth, not to e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 273
mention millions of Arabs, enjoyed it regularly, Sissy’s body had not yet decided whether the unfamiliar pleasure of anal intercourse compensated for the unfamiliar pain.
The Chink, with yam oil as a lubricant, had just performed for a half-hour in Sissy’s fundamental orifice, and now she rested belly-down on a blanket in the sun.
So quiet was she that her host finally looked up from the snakeskin belt he was stitching (He would trade it in Mottburg for water chestnuts and yams) and asked what she was thinking. Flattered that such a self-contained man was interested in her thoughts, she answered quickly,
“About the cowgirls.” It was true; she was thinking about cowgirls. It was only

her gently throbbing rectum that was paying attention to her gently throbbing rectum.
“You’ve managed to avoid telling me how you feel about the cowgirls.”
Returning his attention to the slender, squamous hide, every sun-fired scale of which reflected for Sissy a bad memory of Delores, the Chink kaff-kaffed and hawked, muttering through the last hurumph, “They certainly have improved the view from up here. Umm. Kaff.”
“They’re just cute little things for you to ogle, eh?” said Sissy. There was an accusatory note in her voice. She wondered from where it had come.
“I would think that a woman who worked as a professional model would be cautious about how she criticized ogling.” The Chink looked up long enough to ascertain that he had made his point, then went back to the elegant epidermis of the creepy-crawler. “They’re cute, all right.
Although all of them aren’t so little.” Perhaps he was recalling the day he’d seen Big Red wrestle a steer. “There are other reasons for watching them, however.”
“Such as?”
“Ah, well, Sissy, you see, a lot of noisy rain has fallen on our people in the past few years. Riots and rebellions, needless wars and threats of wars, drugs that opened minds to the infinite and drugs that shoved minds into the mushpot forever, awesome advances in technology and 274
tomrobbins
confusing declines in established values, political corruption, police corruption and corporate corruption, demonstrations and counterdemonstrations, recessions and inflations, crime in the streets and crime in the suites, oil spills and rock festivals, elections and assassinations, this, that and the other. Well, you and I, we separated ourselves from all those happenings, they haven’t touched us. You passed right through them; I let them pass right through me. You practiced the art of perpetual motion; I practice the art of stillness. The result has been much the same.
We’ve maintained a kind of strange purity, you and I; you too mobile for current

events to infect you; me too immo-bile, too remote.
“But those young women down there on that ranch . . .” The old man took one hand off the rattler hide and gestured toward the Rubber Rose. “Those young women have been dipped in the events of our times, immersed from head to toe. You were born with your trauma and you survived it magnificently, but they’ve been shuttled from trauma to trauma most of their young lives. Their parents’ culture failed them and then their own culture failed them. Neither drugs nor occultism worked for them; neither traditional politics nor radical politics lived up to their expectations. A whole banquet of philosophies has been nibbled at and found tasteless.
Many of their peers have surrendered: jumped back with broken spirits into the competitive System or withdrawn into a private mushbowl—‘spaced out,’ they call it, though ‘ambulatory catatonia’ might be a more accurate description.
“These ladies, however, they’re making another attempt at something honorable, another try at directing their own lives. Jellybean . . . ha ha ho ho and hee hee . . .
yes, that incomparable Bonanza Jellybean, has taken a fic-tion and turned it into a reality. She has given form to a long-lost childhood dream. This is nurturing them. And that is why I watch them with such interest. To see where it leads them, and if they will be free and happy there.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 275
“Of course, I also watch the way their rowdy buttocks punch at the bags of their jeans. And speaking of such, my dear Sissy, how is your sweet brown opening convalesc-ing?”
Sissy ignored the indelicate query. “Isn’t there something you could do to help them?” she asked.
“Help them? Ha ha ho ho and hee hee. There you go again. Help them, indeed. In the first place, they’ve got to help themselves. By that, I mean each individual one of them has got to help herself. In the second place, I thought I’d made it clear that I cannot help anyone.”

“But . . .”
“No buts about it. Spiritually, I’m a rich man. Because of my Asian ancestry, I’ve inherited a certain amount of spiritual wealth. But—and you and Debbie and the pilgrims and would-be pilgrims have got to understand this—I cannot share this wealth! Why? Because Eastern spiritual currency is simply not negotiable in your Western culture. It would be like sending dollar bills to the pygmies. You can’t spend dollars in the African jungle.
The best use the pygmies could make of dollar bills would be to light fires with them. Throughout the Western world, I see people huddled around little fires, warming themselves with Buddhism and Taoism and Hinduism and Zen. And that’s the most they ever can do with those philosophies. Warm their hands and feet. They can’t make full use of Hinduism because they aren’t Hindu; they can’t really take advantage of the Tao because they aren’t Chinese; Zen will abandon them after a while—its fire will go out—because they aren’t Japs like me. To turn to Oriental religious philosophies may temporarily illuminate experience for them, but ultimately it’s futile, because they’re denying their own history, they’re lying about their heritage. You can hook a rainbow to a goofy vision—
Jellybean is doing that—but you can’t hook a rainbow to a lie.
“You Westerners are spiritually poor. Your religious philosophies are
impoverished. Well, so what? They’re 276 tomrobbins
probably impoverished for a very good reason. Why not learn that reason? Certainly that’s better than shaving your noggin and wrapping up in the beads and robes of traditions you can never more than partially comprehend.
Admit, first of all, to your spiritual poverty. Confess to it.
That’s the starting point. Unless you have the guts to begin there, stark in your poverty and unashamed, you’re never going to find your way out of the burrows. And borrowed Oriental fineries will not conceal your pre-tense; they will only make you more lonely in your lie.”
Sissy elevated herself on her elbow, keeping her anal compass pointed into the sun. “But what can a Westerner do, then, in his or her poverty?”

“Endure it. Endure it with candor, humor and grace.” “You’re saying it’s hopeless, then?”
“No. I’ve already suggested that the spiritual desolation of the West probably has meaning and that that meaning might be advantageously explored. A Westerner who seeks a higher, fuller consciousness could start digging around in his people’s religious history. Not an easy task, however, because Christianity looms in the way, blocking every return route like a mountain on wheels.”
Sissy’s sphincter was a tiny fist, pounding on the table of love. For the moment, the pounding suited her mood.
“I don’t get it. I thought that Christianity was our religious heritage. How has it blocked . . . ?”
“Oh, Sissy, this really is tiresome. Christianity, you ninny, is an Eastern religion. There are some wondrous truths in its teachings, as there are in Buddhism and Hinduism, truths that are universal, that is, truths that can speak to the hearts and spirits of all peoples everywhere.
But Christianity came out of the East, its origins highly suspect, its dogma already grossly perverted by the time it set foot in the West. Do you think there was no supreme deity in the West prior to that Eastern alien Jehovah?.
There was. From earliest Neolithic days, the peoples of Britain and Europe—the Anglos and Saxons and Latins—
had venerated a deity. The Horned One. The Old God. A e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 277
bawdy goat-man who provided rich harvests and bouncy babies; a hairy, merry deity who loved music and dancing and good food; a god of fields and woodlands and flesh; a fecund provider who could be evoked through fornica- tion as well as meditation, who listened to songs as well as to prayers; a god much loved because he loved, because he put pleasure ahead of asceticism, because jealousy and vengeance were not in his character. The Old God’s principal feast days were Walpurgisnacht (April thirtieth), Candlemas (February second), Lammas (August first) and Hallowe’en (October thirty-first). The holiday you now call Christmas was originally a winter revelry of the Old God

(all historical evidence points toward Christ’s having been born in July). These feasts were celebrated for thousands of years. And veneration of the Old God, often disguised as Jack-in-the-Green or Robin Goodfellow, continued surreptitiously long after Christianity closed its chilling grip around the West. But the Christian powers were nothing if not sly. The Church set about to willfully transform the image of Lucifer, whom the Old Testament informs us was a shining angel, one of God’s chief lieutenants. The Church began to teach that Lucifer had horns, that he wore the cloven hooves of the lecher-ous goat. In other words, the leaders of the Christian conquest gave to Lucifer the physical traits—and some of the personality—of the Old God. They cunningly turned your Old God into the Devil. That was the most cruel li-bel, the greatest slander, the worst malicious distortion in human history. The President of the U.S. is a harmless carnival con man compared to the early Popes.”
From somewhere down the mountainside, there came the vibratory drumming of a grouse. It was precisely the sort of noise Sissy’s anus might have made were it wired for sound. There was a time, her rectum chaste then except for the occasional probing finger, when Sissy had had a minimum of curiosity about the matters she and the old hermit now discussed; she had established, in motion, her relationship to the universe, and it was concrete and 278
tomrobbins
thrilling and whole; in gloriously articulated stops and starts she embodied its life/death rhythms and was one with them, riding high, riding free, riding out on the crazy edge of it All, scooping up with her own two thumbs life’s ecstasy and its terror. Things change. Perhaps now that she no longer strongly felt the universe, she had to know the universe. Sissy asked another question.
“If I—if we Westerners dug back into our heritage, what would we find there? Something valuable? Something as rich as your Oriental inheritance? What would we find?”
“You’d find women, Sissy. And plants. Women and plants. Often in combination.
“Plants are powerful and harbor many secrets. Our lives are bound up with the plant world far more tightly than any of us might imagine. The Old Religion recognized the subtle superiorities of plant life; it tried to understand growing

things and pay them their due. One of the most highly developed orders of the Old Religion, the Druids, took its name from the ancient Irish word druuid, the first syllable of which meant ‘oak’ and the second syllable, ‘one who has knowledge.’ So a druid was one who had knowledge about oak trees—and about the allegedly poisonous mistletoe that grows on oaks and that was sacred to the Druids.
“Every village in olden times had at least one Wise Woman. These ladies had profound expertise in botanical matters. Mushrooms and herbs were their intimates. They used plants to heal the body and to free the mind. These women, of course, were nurturers and nurses. Many of their herb remedies, such as digitalis (from foxglove) and atropine (from belladonna) are still in use today.
“Yes, if you scratch back past the Christian conquest into your true heritage, you will find women doing wondrous things. Women were not only the principal servants of the Old God, women were his mistresses, the power behind his pumpkin throne. Women controlled the Old Religion. It had few priests, many priestesses. There was e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 279
no dogma; each priestess interpreted the religion in her own fashion. The Great Mother—creator and destroyer—
instructed the Old God, was his mama, his wife, his daughter, his sister, his equal and ecstatic partner in the ongoing fuck.
“If you can look beyond Christianity, you will find legions of midwives, goddesses, sorceresses and Graces.
You will find tenders of flocks, presiders over births, protectors of life. You will find dancers, naked or in greenery gowns. You will find women like the women of Gaul, tall, splendid, noble, arbiters of their people, instructors of their children, priestesses of Nature, the Celtic warrior queens. You will find the tolerant matriarchs of pagan Rome—what a contrast to the Caesars and Popes! You will find the Druid women, learned in astronomy and mathematics, engineering Stonehenge, the premium acme apex top-banana clockworks of its era, bar none.
“So there is plenty of treasure in your antiquity, if you could get at it. How it compares to mine is another matter. Maybe where it is lacking is in the realm of light. Buddha and Rama and Lao-tzu brought light into the world.

Literal light. Jesus Christ also was a living manifestation of light, although by the time his teachings were exported into the West, Saint Paul had trimmed the wick, and Jesus’
beam grew dimmer and dimmer until, around the fourth century, it went out altogether. Christianity doesn’t even have any warmth left; it probably never was very calorific.
The Old Religion, on the other hand, was profoundly warm. It decidedly was not lacking in heat. But it was a heat that generated very little light. It warmed every hair on the mammal body, every cell in the reproductive process, but it failed to switch on that golden G.E. bulb that hangs from the loftiest dome of the soul. There was enough pure sensual energy in the Old Religion that had it been directed toward enlightenment it surely would have carried its followers there. Unfortunately, it was sub-verted and enervated by Christianity before its warmth could be widely transformed into light. Maybe that’s the 280
tomrobbins
path that needs to be completed, that’s the logical goal for Western man. As individuals, of course; not in organized groups. And the United States of America is the logical place for the fires of paganism to be rebuilt—and transformed into light. Maybe. I could be wrong. But I can say for sure, there is plenty of treasure in your antiquity if you can get at it.”
“But we can’t go back,” said Sissy. “We can’t dwell in the past.”
“No, you can’t. Technology shapes psyches as well as environments, and maybe the peoples of the West are too sophisticated, too permanently alienated from Nature to make extensive use of their pagan heritage. However, links can be established. Links must be established. To make contact with your past, to re- establish the broken continuity of your spiritual development, is not the same as a romantic, sentimental retreat into simpler, rustic lifestyles. To attempt to be a backwoods homesteader in an electronic technology may be as misguided as attempting to be Hindu when one is Anglo-Saxon. However, your race has lost many valuable things along the road of so-called progress and you need to go back and retrieve them. If nothing else, to discover where you’ve been may enable you to guess at where you’re going.
“If anywhere. Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.”

Sissy lowered her arms and cradled her blond head in them. The Chink might be right, she thought. Her pre-Christian ancestry might bear looking into. Her race, the poor Scotch-Irish, had produced nothing of note, spiritually or materially, in modern times, but perhaps there had been a day . . . Yes, it was worth investigating. But what of that part of her that was Indian; where did that fit in?
For as far back as she could remember, she had felt apart from her neighbors and kin. Oh Lord, South Richmond! There once was a neighborhood, its name was South Richmond, and it let numerous frame houses peel, fade and sag along its gritty streets. It allowed numerous e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 281
cars—clunkers and junkers—to be parked in front of the houses, even though the cars dripped oil into the grit and even though they had to be pushed to get them started on frosty mornings, sometimes on warm mornings, too.
What a constant puff and grunt and goddamn, pushing those cars! And South Richmond permitted numerous people to occupy the houses, even though the people chewed Juicy Fruit gum so hard they cracked the wall-boards, and even though on Saturday nights husbands exhaled bourbon fumes through those cracks, and frequently, if the week had been mean enough in the cigarette factories or the unemployment lines, stuffed their wives’ heads into those cracks, pin curlers and all. There once was a neighborhood called South Richmond, where women sported bruised jaws and men purchased bleacher seats for the stock car races and children never learned that James Joyce invented the tape recorder, that Scarlet O’Hara had a seventeen-inch waist or that the original Frankenstein monster spoke fluent French; a neighborhood where dogs and preachers whined and hillbilly vocalists sang mournfully of somebody running off with somebody else’s little darling, and toy Confederate flags fluttered over everything and a girl grew thumbs so big they made rolls of baloney swoon in their casings, and she didn’t care, because those thumbs meant that she was something her neighbors and kin were not, hallelujah.
When Sissy had learned she was one-sixteenth Siwash, she thought that maybe her thumbs were the Siwash part, that the ancient Indian spirits had sent her the thumbs as a sign that she was not made of South Richmond stuff, that circumstances more glorious and heroic lay in her past and her future.
That was naïve, of course. Now, she was not sure that those sparse Siwash cells made any difference at all. Look at Julian—he was full-blooded, and look at

him. Yet she remained curious about it, and finding herself upon real estate holy to the Siwash, in the company of a man, Japan-282
tomrobbins
ese though he be, who was an ordained Siwash shaman, she had been waiting only for the right moment to begin her inquiry. This moment seemed as right as any.
Before she could speak, however, there was heard a noise so sudden and loud it made her sit up straight with no thought to her bottom. It must be told that the Chink was startled, also, running a needle through the snake’s skin into his own. But he quickly relaxed and sniggered,
“Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.” And Sissy realized that it was the clockworks that had chimed—there it went again!
Bonk! went the clockworks, and then it went poing!
and unlike the chimes of a regular clock, which announce, on schedule, the passing—linear and purposeful—of another hour on the inexhorable march toward death, the clockworks chime came stumbling out of left field, hopping in one tennis shoe, unconcerned as to whether it was late or early, admitting to neither end nor beginning, bliss-fully oblivious of any notion of progression or development, winking, waving, and finally turning back upon itself and lying quiet, having issued a breathless, giddy signal in lieu of steady tick-and-tock, a signal that, de-coded, said: “Take note, dear person, of your immediate position, become for a second exactly identical with yourself, glimpse yourself removed from the fatuous habits of progress as well as from the tragic implications of destiny, and, instead, see that you are an eternal creature fixed against the wide grin of the horizon; and having experienced, thus, what it is like to be attuned to the infinite universe, return to the temporal world lightly and glad-hearted, knowing that all the art and science of the twentieth century cannot prevent this clock from striking again, and in no precisioned Swiss-made mechanisms can the reality of this kind of time be surpassed. Poing! ”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 283

73.
............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bonk!

74.
yam oil seeped into her pores. Her thumb pores, this time. The Chink was anointing them. He waved burning twigs of juniper around them. He shook a little bell at them. Hung garlands of goldenrod ’round them. Serenaded them— his instrument was a cigar box across which was pulled tight a single wire, which he bowed furiously. It made the worst music Sissy had ever heard. It made her want to turn on the all-polka radio.
They were in the entrance chamber of the cave, protected from stone by Japanese matting. Just outside, a small campfire flickered on their third and last night together.
284
tomrobbins
At dawn, the Chink would go down into the hills and plains to harvest. There were foodstuffs that he must gather and add to the supply that he already had stored in the lower level of the cave, where he would winter.
Sissy would leave before he returned next day. She had a husband waiting. She had a cowgirl to see, a Countess to appease. She had questions to answer and maybe to ask.
For example, “Where did all this lust come from!”
It is important to believe in love. Everyone knows that.
But is it possible to believe in lust?
Sissy wasn’t positive what she believed anymore. Once it had been simple. She had believed in hitchhiking.
She asked the Chink what he believed. Just like that.

She interrupted thumb-worship, parted the meat curtains of lust, stared at his teeth and asked, “What do you believe in? I mean, really, what do you really believe?”
“Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.” He laughed at her, saying nothing. His laughter and his silence made her weep.
Tears, however, did not dampen her lust.
Lust lasted late, and when in midmorning she awoke, the Chink was gone.
Sunbeams galloped through the cave mouth, following the same route firelight had taken. Something was different about the cave. Trying to determine what it was brought her fully awake. With the sun’s help, she saw that an inscription had been freshly scrawled with sumi ink across the right wall. Then her eyes were drawn to the left wall, where another graffito was dripping.
On the right wall had been written:
i believe in everything; nothing is sacred. And on the left wall:
i believe in nothing; everything is sacred.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 285

75.
dr. goldman caught up with Dr. Robbins shortly after the intern submitted a report requesting that Sissy Hankshaw Gitche be discharged immediately from the clinic.
The confrontation between the two psychiatrists came to be known in psychology circles as the Gunfight at the I’m O.K./You’re O.K. Corral.
“Am I to understand,” asked Dr. Goldman, “that you regard Mrs. Gitche a stabilized personality unneedful of treatment?” His voice had an incredulous tone.
Dr. Robbins chinned himself on the saggy bars of his mustache. “Stabilized schmabilized,” he said. “What could this clinic possibly treat her for?”
“What indeed,” snorted Dr. Goldman. “Here we have a woman more than thirty years of age, who, though unusually intelligent and lovely to look at, has failed to transcend a slight, albeit bizarre congenital deformity . . .”
It was Dr. Robbins’s turn to snort. Although a younger man, less experienced at snorting, Dr. Robbins’s snort made up in bravura what it lacked in finesse and was the match of the older fellow’s. “Transcend, you say. What a pompous word! The very idea of transcending something smacks of hierarchy and class consciousness; the notion of ‘upward mobility’ with which this country attracts greedy immigrants and chastises its poor. Jesus, Goldman!
The trick is not to transcend things but to transform them. Not to degrade them or deny them—and that’s what transcendence amounts to—but to reveal them more fully, to heighten their reality, to search for their latent significance. I fail to detect a single healthy impulse in the cowardly attempt to transcend the physical world. On the other hand, to transform a physical entity by changing 286
tomrobbins
the climate around it through the manner in which one regards it is a marvelous undertaking, creative and courageous. And that’s what Sissy has done since

childhood. By erasing accepted standards of perception, she transformed her thumbs while affirming them. In her affirmation of them, she intensified the vividness and richness of associa-tions they might arouse. To paraphrase a remark she made to me, she introduced them to poetry. I would think that Sissy is an example for every afflicted person, which is to say, Doctor, an example for each of us.”
Snort time again. The pig war was on. Inspired by his junior colleague, Dr. Goldman’s latest snort was issued with a certain boldness, although the dignity of the snorter was carefully uncompromised. “Pardon me, but the concept of introducing a deformed thumb to poetry is one I find rarefied and imprecise, one that most people, afflicted or otherwise, would consider utter nonsense.
Nonsense is of no help to anyone . . .” “It isn’t? Are you sure?”
“Nonsense, if you’ll let me speak, Robbins, is of no help to anyone except as it might manifest itself in a neurotic fixation upon which one’s stability depends.”
“Stability, schmability.”
“Centering her life on her handicap rather than overcoming that handicap; building, if you will, a mystique around that handicap might seem a poetic undertaking to Mrs. Gitche. It might even seem such to you, God forbid.
But I am not convinced, nor is Mr. Gitche, who cares for her most and knows her best. Mr. Gitche . . .”
“Mr. Gitche is a flaming asshole.”
“Hardly a professional evaluation, Robbins.”
“Oh no? I thought you Freudians were really big on assholes. I recall entire lectures devoted to anal expulsion, anal retention . . .”
“Don’t be cute. We haven’t got all day.” Dr. Goldman glanced at his office clock the way an insecure husband glances at his flirtatious wife at a party. The clock went right on batting its big eye at eternity. “To return to the e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 287

point, Mr. Gitche contends, with apparent justification, that his wife is immature . . .”
“Growing up is a trap,” snapped Dr. Robbins. “When they tell you to shut up, they mean stop talking. When they tell you to grow up, they mean stop growing. Reach a nice level plateau and settle there, predictable and unchanging, no longer a threat. If Sissy is immature, it means she’s still growing; if she’s still growing, it means she’s still alive. Alive in a dying culture.”
Dr. Goldman stirred a half-amused little chuckle into his snort, much as a splash of red Burgundy might be stirred into a pot of lard. “We could have an interesting argument about that sometime,” he said. “For the present, however, let’s appreciate Mr. Gitche’s viewpoint. Mr.
Gitche told me once that what bothered him the most about his wife’s devotion to hitchhiking was its obvious-ness. She was afflicted with enlarged thumbs, ergo she hitchhiked. Now, had she decided, instead, to become a fine seamstress or to excel at tennis or to take up painting . . .”
Speaking of painting, there was a Julian Gitche watercolor on the wall above Dr. Goldman’s desk. It was a landscape, a Central Park scene, rather free and airy, like a hose spray of green Easter-egg dye in which some sprite or minor deity was taking a bath. One wondered what would happen to the artist’s protoromantic style were he to set up his easel in the Dakota hills. And one suspects that the experience of the Dakotas is too strong for any established aesthetics to withstand. At any rate, the painting quivered a bit on its hanger when Dr. Robbins boomed:
“There you go again! Transcendence! Wishing her to deny her thumbs by compensating for their limitations instead of affirming them by exploiting their strengths.
Jesus!”
“But hitchhiking, Robbins. What kind of affirmative activity is that? Mrs. Gitche wasn’t even interested in travel. It seems to me that fairly early in life she seized 288
tomrobbins

upon hitchhiking as a means of coping with an understandable anxiety, and that what began as an ill-chosen defense mechanism gradually evolved into a pointless and somewhat grotesque obsession. Hitchhiking, of all things . . .”
Dr. Robbins grasped his mustache, as if to prevent it from turning and leaving the room without him. There is a point where even hair can become exasperated. “Hitchhiking, schmitchhiking. Don’t you see that it doesn’t matter what activity Sissy chose? It doesn’t matter what activity anyone chooses. If you take any activity, any art, any discipline, any skill, take it and push it as far as it will go, push it beyond where it has ever been before, push it to the wildest edge of edges, then you force it into the realm of magic. And it doesn’t matter what it is that you select, because when it has been pushed far enough it contains everything else. I’m not talking about specialization.
To specialize is to brush one tooth. When a person specializes he channels all of his energies through one narrow conduit; he knows one thing extremely well and is ignorant of almost everything else. That’s not it. That’s tame and insular and severely limiting. I’m talking about taking one thing, however trivial and mundane, to such extremes that you illuminate its relationship to all other things, and then taking it a little bit further—to that point of cosmic impact where it becomes all other things.”
A flicker of comprehension lit up Dr. Goldman’s heavy orbs the way a flash of heat lightning might light up the nocturnal droppings of a well-fed mule. “I see,” he said.
“You’re referring to Gestalt—or to some far-fetched interpretation of Gestalt. Are we leading into a confrontation between Freudian and Gestalt psychology?”
“Gestalt schmagalt,” growled Dr. Robbins. “What I’m referring to is magic.”
Dr. Goldman shook his head wearily, even sadly. After a while he said, “In your rather abbreviated report”—he held up a single page of paper against which some rude sentences had been smacked as if slapped there by the e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 289
nasty tail of a barnyard animal—“You recommend only that Mrs. Gitche be discharged and that she be encouraged to divorce her husband. Surely you’re aware that there is no way in which we can therapeutically, ethically or legally encourage a patient to divorce her mate. Our business is preserving marriages,

not ending them . . .”
“Our business should be liberating the human spirit.
Or if that’s too idealistic for you, if that strikes you as the business of religion— which it should be, too—then our business should be assisting people to function —crazily or not isn’t our concern; that’s up to them—helping them to function on whatever level or levels of ‘sanity’ they choose to function on, not helping them to adjust and locking them up if they don’t adjust.”
Past the point of snorting, Dr. Goldman removed his horn-rimmed glasses, rubbed his eyes and said evenly,
“Dr. Robbins, our fundamental differences are greater than I had imagined. I’ll have Miss Waterworth schedule a conference for us next week and we can give them an air-ing and decide if they can be reconciled. For the present, however, my concern is for the patient. Encouraging her to divorce is, of course, out of the question. Mr. Gitche is a talented, educated sympathetic man who loves his wife a great deal. Mr. Gitche . . .”
“Mr. Gitche has pulled his wife away from the edge and into the center. In here with the rest of us. I don’t mind the center. It’s big and mysterious and ambiguous—perhaps as exhilarating in its soft, shifting complexity as the edge is exhilarating in its hard, stark terminations. But the center can be a harmful place for one who has lived so long on the edge. Normality has been a colossal challenge for Sissy and I think she’s met the challenge bravely and well.
However, normality is a neurosis. Normality is the Great Neurosis of civilization. It’s rare to discover someone who hasn’t been infected, to greater or lesser degree, by that neurosis. Sissy hasn’t. Yet. If she continues to be exposed, she’ll eventually succumb. I think that would be a tragedy akin to sawing the horn off the last unicorn. For our sake 290
tomrobbins
as much as for her own, I believe Sissy should be protected from normality. Freed from the center and left to return to the edge. Out there, she’s valuable. In here, she’s just another disturbing noise in the zoo. Julian Gitche may be, as you say, kind and sympathetic, but he’s a threat to Sissy, nonetheless. He’s seduced her into a situation that is the mirror-opposite of what she believes it to be.

Julian is driven by material ambitions; narrow, insatiable, intense, systematic, egocentric. In other words, he’s a settler. Broad-based, timeless and dreamful, Sissy is the Indian. You’re aware, Doctor, of the destruction met by the Indian when the settler lands on his shores.”
A sigh, not a snort, was what Dr. Goldman issued next: a soft sigh like a trade wind blowing its nose against the sail of a toy boat. “Robbins, you’re introducing concepts that are intriguing but, to my mind, irrelevent. Let me ask you one direct question. Do you honestly feel there is no disturbance in the personality of this woman, this woman with these . . . these thumbs, except the effects of a bad marriage?”
“No, I never meant to imply that.” The younger man flicked the end of his mustache as if he were knocking the ash off an impotent cigar. “Sissy is suffering a bit of confusion.”
“Ummm. And to what do you attribute this confusion?”
“To the fact that she’s simultaneously in love with an elderly hermit and a teen- aged cowgirl.”
Dr. Goldman got his snort back. He almost choked on it. “Mein Gott man! Are you joking? Well, why didn’t you mention that in your report? Surely you don’t regard it lightly? You don’t think it’s all right?”
Flicking the other end of his mustache, Dr. Robbins answered, “For many people, maybe for most people, being in love simultaneously with an old hermit and a teen-aged cowgirl might be a horrendous mistake. For other people, it might be absolutely right. For most people, having oral sex with anteaters may be the wrong thing to do; for a few e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 291
people it may be perfect. You see my point? As for Sissy, she’s finding the situation a bit confusing. I’m not sure that it’s doing her any real harm.”
The senior psychiatrist slapped his forehead. Had there been a mosquito there it would have vanished as completely as Glenn Miller, leaving only the memory of its music behind. “Mein Gott: I mean, my God. So. Well. I’d say that this evidence of homosexuality in Mrs. Gitche’s libido rather firmly substantiates the fact of her emotional immaturity. You will agree with that?”

“Nope. Not necessarily. Lesbianism is definitely on the rise. I can’t believe that the many who practice it are all suffering from preadolescent fixations. No, I’m more inclined to believe that it’s a cultural phenomenon, a healthy rejection of the paternalistic power structure that has dominated the civilized world for more than two thousand years. Maybe women have got to love women in order to remind men what love is. Maybe women have got to love women before they can start loving men again.”
Once more Dr. Goldman was rendered snortless. “Robbins,” he said softly, as if drooping from a cross,
“never in my career have I encountered anyone, neither psychiatrist nor psychiatric patient, with such a hodge-podge of confounding ideas.”
“Well, Doctor,” said Robbins, “The Chink says if it gets sloppy, eat it over the sink.”
“The Chink? Oh, you mean Mao Tse-tung?”
Dr. Robbins laughed so abruptly he frightened his mustache. “Yeah, yeah, right. Mao Tse-tung.”
“Heaven help me. It’s not enough I’ve hired a kook. He’s a Communist as well.”
Robbins laughed again. This time the mustache was ready. “So you think I’m a kook, do you? Maybe you’re right, Doctor. Maybe you’re right. I’ve never mentioned this to anyone, but as a child . . .”
“Yes?” There was a sudden gleam in Dr. Goldman’s tired eyes. “As a child . . .”
292
tomrobbins

“Yes? Go on.”
“As a child, I was an imaginary playmate.”
Dr. Robbins escorted his grateful mustache out of the room.

76.
you’ve heard of people calling in sick. You may have called in sick a few times yourself. But have you ever thought about calling in well?
It’d go like this: You’d get the boss on the line and say,
“Listen, I’ve been sick ever since I started working here, but today I’m well and I won’t be in anymore.” Call in well.
That’s what Dr. Robbins did, exactly. The morning following his consultation with Dr. Goldman, he called in well and he wasn’t faking. You can’t fake a thing like that.
It’s infinitely harder to pretend you’re well than to pretend you’re sick.
After telephoning, Dr. Robbins donned an electric yellow nylon shirt, and when he tucked it into a pair of ma-roon bell-bottoms, it was like lightning striking a full wino. Before he left his apartment, he fed both his alarm clock and his Bulova to the disposal unit. “I’m passing out of the time of day and into the time of the soul,” he announced. Then, when he considered how pretentious that sounded, he corrected himself: “Strike that!” he said.
“Let’s simply say that I’m well today.”
Out on Lexington Avenue, Dr. Robbins strolled leisurely. He sat on a park bench and smoked a Thai stick.
He ducked into a phone booth and looked up Gitche in the directory. Didn’t call; just looked at the number and smiled. Sissy, on her own insistence and with Julian’s hesie v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 293
tant permission, was, indeed, being discharged from the clinic that day.
On Madison, Dr. Robbins went into a travel agency and asked to see a map of the western United States. He stared at the Sierra range of California and at Dakota and not much in between. A travel agent, who looked like Loretta Young and who appeared as if she feared Robbins’s mustache had sneaked into the U.S.

in a bunch of bananas, was obliged to be of service, but there was little she could do for a traveler with clockworks on his mind.
Dr. Robbins strolled on. Without knowing it, he strolled beneath the laboratory windows behind which the Countess was pitting the full ray of his genius against that furtive deep-swimming mammal whose sea breath escapes in sultry condensations from the dank lungs of the cunt.
In a glass display case in the lobby of the Countess’s building lay a handmolded red rubber syringe—the very first Rose, the awkward prototype, the blushing original, the progenitor of the line of sensationally successful squeeze-bags whose name still adorned the largest all-girl ranch in the West. In innocence, Dr. Robbins passed it by.
Dr. Robbins wasn’t certain where he was going on that May morning. As to his eventual destination, however, he was clear. He would go to the clockworks. And to the Chink. What’s more, Sissy would lead him there. You see, the healthy and unemployed psychiatrist had recently arrived at a twofold conclusion: (1) if there was any man alive who could add yeast to the rising loaf of his being, that man was the Chink; (2) if there was any woman who could butter that loaf, that woman was Sissy. Dr. Robbins was quite convinced, quite determined, quite excited, quite in love. He faced the future with a sparkling mind and a silly grin.
However, there was a force at work that Dr. Robbins had not reckoned on, a force that Sissy had not reckoned on, a force that had not been reckoned on by anybody in 294
tomrobbins
North America, including the Clock People, the Audubon Society and that man who, due to someone’s calling in sick (not well at all in this case) at the White House, was soon to be the new President of the United States. That force was: the whooping crane rustlers.
PA RT
 
V
This is a bird that cannot compromise or adjust its way of life to ours. Could not by its very nature, could not even if we allowed it the opportunity, which we did not. For the Whooping Crane there is no freedom but that of un-bounded wilderness, no life except its own. Without meek-ness, without a sign of humility, it has refused to accept our idea of what the world should be like. If we succeed in preserving the wild remnant that still survives, it will be no credit to us; the glory will rest on this bird whose stubborn vigor has kept it alive in the face of increasing and seemingly hopeless odds.
—Robert Porter Allen

77.
it was about two minutes on the tequila side of sunrise. So early the bluebirds hadn’t brushed their teeth yet. Homer referred in The Odyssey to “rosy-fingered dawn.” Homer, who was blind and had no editor, referred over and over again to “rosy-fingered dawn.” Pretty soon, dawn began to think of herself as rosy- fingered: the old doctrine of life imitating art.
Fingers—and thumbs—of rose were drumming gently, like a Juilliard professor at a jazz club, on the table top of early morning America.
First light ventured through the windows of the bunkhouse. Softly, cowgirls turned in their beds. They made sleepy little noises, like the love cries of angel food cakes.
Heather was dreaming about her diabetic mother, who was forever threatening to commit suicide with Hershey bars if Heather didn’t come home. Almost inaudibly, Heather whimpered into her pillow. Jody was dreaming she was back in high school, taking a math exam. She remembered that she hadn’t studied, and she began to sweat with embarrassment and fear. Mary was dreaming she was ascending to Heaven in a rubber life raft. In the dream, Mary wore flippers on her feet. Mary would wake up 298
tomrobbins
puzzled. Elaine was dreaming about the source of her bladder infection. Her nipples were erect. She was smiling. LuAnn was dreaming the dream she dreamed nearly every night, the one in which her boy friend, his dilated pupils as black as Muslim golf balls, approached her with a dripping needle. In real life, she had awakened a few hours after the fix. Two years later, her boy friend still had not come to. LuAnn was on the verge of screaming. Debbie was dreaming she could fly, and Big Red, snoring mightily, dreamed she had found a lot of money lying around on the ground. Linda was dreaming she was in bed with Kym. She woke up and discovered that it was true. She scampered back to her own bunk.
Just in time. The sack of peyote buttons beneath Delores’s head was singing her

awake, as it did each morning.
The forewoman stretched and rubbed her eyes. Soon she would stride down the aisle cracking her whip. No alarm clocks were necessary at the Rubber Rose. Besides, a clock radio would have played nothing but polkas.
From the main house there floated the voodoo smell of perking coffee. Donna, whose turn it was, had already begun breakfast. Up, pardners, up. There were goats to be milked and birds to be . . . watched over.
Plap. Plap plap plap. Bare cowgirl feet began to hit the linoleum. Feet with painted nails and feet with blisters, clean-smelling feet and feet fermenting in toe jam, tender feet, flaking feet, feet that had fidgeted indecisively in shoe stores and feet that had fallen in love with the gym floor at the prom, go-go feet, ballet- lessons-on-Saturday-mornings feet, pink feet, yellowish feet, arched feet, flat feet, massaged feet, neglected feet, beach feet, sneak feet, tickled-by-Daddy feet, feet pinched red by too-tight boots, feet that attracted glass shards and splinters and feet that imagined themselves to be clouds. Plap plap. Bare feet kissed the linoleum and pattered girlishly to foot lockers (in which there were no spare feet), to windows (to see what kind of weather was afoot) or out to the shitter (exactly ninety-two feet from the bunkhouse).
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 299
Plap. Plap. Listen. There were other plaps to be heard upon that summer’s dawn. Plaps sounded in cities and towns where no barefoot cowgirls trod. The author is speaking now of the plap and plap of morning newspapers, rolled and tucked, plapping against porches as news-boys demonstrated their careless aim.
Countless newspapers landed with countless plaps on countless porches, bringing to countless readers the ball scores and comics and horoscopes and, on that particular morning, the first public notification of what many would consider a shocking ecological disaster. Different papers played the story in different ways. Perhaps the headline in the St. Louis Post-Dispatch, succinct as it was, told it best.
It read: our whooping cranes are missing.

78.
some five hundred thousand years ago, the North American continent finally got up enough nerve to kick the last of the glaciers out of its parlor. Ice gone, the North American continent called in the decorators and ordered them to create an environment worthy of some classy new wildlife. “Grass is in,” the decorators announced, and they began to assemble a landscape of vast prairies, inland seas and wet savannas. A primitive pre-Pleistocene swamp bird cast a yellow eye upon the endless acres of marshy vegetation, waving grass and shallow waters and decided it liked the new décor well enough to move in. In fact, this bird liked the new décor so much it let out a whoop. Thus, inspired by its surroundings, it evolved into the whooping crane.
The whooper was classy, all right. It combined great size with majestic beauty and a kind of shy arrogance to produce a total effect that no bird before or since has 300
tomrobbins
equaled. The satiny black markings on its dazzlingly white body were economically and perfectly placed; its ruby crown and cheek patches (which were, in fact, red skin bare of all feathers) provided a certain flash without being vulgar; its tapered silhouette and graceful curves were to excite artists and designers not yet born; its powerful voice could spook the spine of a predator from a half-mile away; the aloof pride with which it conducted its daily business invented the word dignity for animal dictionaries. Ranging coast to coast and from the Arctic to central Mexico, the whooping crane was surely El Birdo Supremo in North America during the Golden Age of Grass.
Things change. Even grass goes out of fashion. In the later Pleistocene, trees became a hot item. Forest gradually encroached on the grasslands and the water table subsided. The crane habitat, un-Sanforized, began to undergo a relentless shrinking. The sandhill crane, the whooper’s smaller, plainer cousin, made the necessary adjustments, adapting good-naturedly to a less grassy, less watery world. But not our bird. The whooping crane practiced the science of the particular; it enacted the singular as opposed to the general; it embodied the exception rather than the rule. To hell with compromise! It knew what it wanted

and that was that. Unlike those integrity-short teemers, including man, the whooper opted for quality instead of quantity, rejected the notion that anything is better than nothing. It would survive on its own terms or not at all. And, indeed, it retreated in numbers as well as range, clinging defiantly to ever-narrowing confines. The whooping crane population had dwindled to fewer than two thousand even before civilization set its hard, polished shoes upon our shores.
Still, two thousand whoopers were two thousand whoopers—enough sheer feather power to stop every show in the nightclub district of birdland—and the crane census might have remained at that approximate figure had not civilization decided to do North America a favor e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 301
by inviting itself to dinner. Between civilization and whooping cranes there was an immediate and lasting personality conflict. In the luggage of the civilizing process there came farming, shotgun sport, egg collecting, indus-trialization, urban sprawl, polluting, aviation, oil drilling, military operations, grass fires and the Army Corps of Engineers, those busy little khaki beavers who have set out to turn America’s natural waterways into industrial ditches. Added to predators, climate changes and hurricanes, it was a bit too much for the super duper whooper.
After 1918, when a Louisiana farmer named Alcie Daigle shot twelve cranes that were feeding on rice fallen from his threshing machine (Alcie Daigle, may sharp beaks scissor your testicles daily in the fried ricefields of Hell!) there were but two flocks of wild whooping cranes left alive in the world. Soon there was only one. By September 1941, this flock, incessantly harassed, was down to fifteen birds. Fifteen, count ’em, fifteen. Extinction music swelled in the background.
Ever since its founding in 1905, the conservationist Audubon Society had taken a special interest in whoopers. It knew an extraordinary bird when it watched one.
The Audubon’s little old ladies and mild gentlemen in galoshes pecked at the government so tirelessly that finally the politicians, in a weary outburst, decreed, in 1937, that the wintering grounds of the last remaining whooper flock would henceforth be a refuge. Like most prolife gestures on the part of the government, the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge on the Gulf Coast of Texas was not much more than a token. Aransas offered the cranes winter shelter from hunters and egg collectors, to be sure, but the U.S. Air Force was allowed to maintain a

bombing range right off shore, and the major oil companies continued to drill and dredge and diddle and daddle all along the edges of the preserve. Also, the flock, though illegal game, had no real protection on their long migratory flights between Aransas and their summer nesting and breeding grounds in the northern Canadian wilderness, and each year sev-302
tomrobbins
eral cranes fell to the merry pow-pows of drunken sports-men. The flock hung on to life by its toenails, although it hung with aplomb.
In the early fifties, however, a hero cometh, a Batman—
or Craneman—winging into the arena on a cape of white quills, goosing the government and causing extinction to duck. The hero’s name was Robert Porter Allen, research director of the Audubon Society and no galosh-wearing dispenser of birdseed, he. Allen liked whooping cranes more than he liked statesmen or movie stars or Our Father Who Art in Heaven; he was brilliant, thorough, tough, persuasive and, most important, he had a way with the press. When only nineteen whoopers returned to Aransas in October of 1951, he managed to get the media concerned. And after numerous news reports and editori-als were broadcast and published, the government magically began to make a more conscientious effort on behalf of those untamed monsters it had declared its official wards.
The government ran some crane-cheek-colored tape through its red tape machine, and after a few years civilization began to go a mite easier on the whooper, not that the whooper gave a high-circling damn. In 1956, there were twenty-eight cranes wintering on the Aransas preserve. In 1957, the flock decreased to twenty-four. In 1959, the number was up to thirty-two. And so it went.
Like scores from the ballpark of the Absolute. And each spring and fall, at times of crane departures and crane arrivals, the media dutifully reported the crane scores, giving them space alongside accounts of the international situation, which was desperate, as usual.
When, in 1969, the whooper population hit a big fat fifty, the media cheered wildly. In 1973, there were fifty-five birds wintering at the Texas refuge, a figure that, when announced, caused hardened cons to smile in their slammers. Or so

some folks would have us believe.
At any rate, as sometimes happens in this malleable but not self-malleable curious cultural consciousness of ours, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 303
a kind of mystique grew up around the whooping crane, around the drama of its survival. Nonfeathered backs were patted all around, and the whooper was called “a symbol of both this country’s new-found concern about its wildlife and of its opportunity to atone for its destructiveness in the past.”
It did not set the national thyroid to pumping happily when it was learned that this symbol, the entire last existing flock of whooping cranes, had vanished without a trace.

79.
“it was a routine flight,” said the official of the Canadian Wildlife Service, as if there was any such thing as a routine flight. The people who see miracles are the people who look for miracles, the people who open their eyes to the miracles that surround us always. The people who have routine flights are the people who believe they are on routine flights . . . but now, what with our whooping cranes AWOL, now is not the time for digressions upon the obvious. The official was as skinny and nervous as the last snake out of Ireland as he fumbled with his pipe and tried to make an important mission sound as if it had been a routine flight.
The flight in question had been made in a two-seat, single-rotary helicopter. The pilot was an employee of the Canadian Wildlife Service, as was the passenger, field biol-ogist Jim McGhee. This May, as every May for the past fourteen years, McGhee had made a “routine” flight over the desolate marshes south of Great Slave Lake, near the Alberta-Northwest Territories border, to count whooping cranes. McGhee would compare his count with the number of birds reported to have left Aransas, Texas, to see 304
tomrobbins
how the cranes had fared on their twenty-five-hundred-mile migration. Rare was the year when they didn’t lose one bird, but conditions certainly had improved since the fifties, when Canada filed formal protests with the U.S. in an attempt to protect the cranes from American hunters, oilmen and bombers. Yes, whooping crane stock was up a half-million points on the big board, and an investor such as McGhee, who had bought cheap, had every reason to feel smug and to fancy himself on a routine flight when he churned in low over the marshes to check the Dow Jones averages that May.
Back in 1744, a French explorer made the following en-try in his journal: “We have [in Canada] cranes of two colors; some are all white, the others pale gray, all make excellent soup.” Well, it was as if some fiendish French fatso from the gluttony wards of Hell had cooked up a cauldron of Campbell’s Cream of Whooping Crane, for squint as they might, Jim McGhee and his pilot could not spot a single whooper that day.

McGhee was puzzled, a trifle alarmed, maybe, but not freaked-out. The cranes must have moved, he reasoned.
Their nesting grounds had been threatened twice by forest fires since 1970, and despite the Canadian government’s maneuvers to bar sight-seers from the area, there had been increasing air traffic over the whooper nurseries in recent years. The five-hundred-square-mile enclave in which birds of this solitary flock chose to build their nests of heaped grass, deposit their mushroom-colored eggs and hatch their sparrow-sized chicks was a mere postage stamp on a vast package of forbidding terrain. It was part of a region that was as rugged and remote as any on the North American continent. Dotted with shallow, muddy lakes separated by narrow zones of spiky black spruce and twisting rivers too choked by fallen timber to be nav-igable, it had been trod upon by neither white man nor Indian. In fact, the whooper domain was so well hidden it had taken airborne searchers from both U.S. and Canadian Wildlife agencies ten years to find it. As McGhee e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 305
theorized over a bottle of Uncle Ben’s malt liquor in Fort Smith that evening, the cranes could have transferred their nesting area to a different part of the wilderness. Since the birds live in isolated family groups, often separated by as much as twenty miles, it didn’t seem likely that the entire flock might have rejected the traditional nesting grounds as if of one mind, but McGhee knew that wild creatures sometimes did the unlikely. McGhee liked wild creatures.
He had once elbowed his wife awake in the middle of the night to tell her, quite factually, “Wild animals don’t snore.” That was a month before the breakup. Ah, well.
McGhee ordered another Uncle Ben’s, deciding not to sound a crane panic until he and his pilot had looked further.
The following day, the two men applied closer scrutiny to the usual whooper habitat. They flew so low they were practically sodomized by cattails. No birds. The day after that, they surveyed the area south of the traditional nesting grounds, whirring above the banks of the Little Buffalo River and its marshy tributaries, the logical (?) places for a whooper relocation. Not so much as a snowy pin-feather tickled their eyes. That evening, Jim McGhee radioed Ottawa.
From the capital came the skinny, pipe-smoking official of the Canadian

Wildlife Service. He was not yet showing signs of nervousness, but he was soon to be rattling like the muffler on a hula girl’s convertible. The official enlisted four additional helicopters in the search. For a week they went through the wilderness the way the Errol Flynn Memorial Panty Raid Society went through the coed dorms at Kansas State University that terrible night in 1961—but with nowhere near the success.
At last the official—O champagne of trembles, O waterfall of bones—had no choice but to notify the insufferable Americans. Both the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the Audubon Society responded at once. It was ascertained and ascertained again that fifty-one whoopers, in groups of one to three families, had left the Aransas 306
tomrobbins
refuge during the third week of April. Aransas’s superin-tendent testified that the cranes’ mating dances had been unusually athletic that year, but there was no reason to believe that they were having a last fling.
About midway in migration, the whoopers normally stopped for several days of rest and recreation along Nebraska’s Platte River. There the stiff-legged birds would stride in agitated dignity, like so many Prince Philips pacing outside the quarters of the queen, as they hunted the river banks for frogs, scratched in the sandbars for mollusks or stalked grasshoppers in the open stretches of high grass. It was standard procedure for governmental agents to take in-ventory of the cranes during the Platte River stopover, but thereafter to rely for migration information upon voluntary reports from citizens until Jim McGhee made his annual nesting count. This year was no exception, and the wildlife wardens who monitored the cranes in Nebraska now reiterated their reports that the big birds had been all present and accounted for and looking as healthy as rich men’s children before the ennui sets in. A farmboy and a telephone lineman had reported seeing separate whooper flights over southwestern South Dakota. After that, nothing.
Between Murdo, South Dakota, and the Alberta—
Northwest Territories nesting grounds, the cranes had disappeared. Canadian officials eyed the Americans suspiciously. American officials eyed the Canadians suspiciously. Was the highest card in the Deck of Birds up

somebody’s sleeve?
An American plane traced the whooping crane flyway from Nebraska to the Saskatchewan border. A Canadian plane followed the migration route from the U.S. line to the nesting grounds. Nada.
“We’re scheduling daily flights along the flypath,” announced the Americans. “We’re scheduling daily flights along the flypath,” announced the Canadians. The first American flight passed just out of view of the Rubber Rose, where tiny Lake Siwash was shimmering like a pool of cowgirl tears.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 307
The calendar had dipped its muzzle into late May— nearly two weeks after Jim McGhee’s infamous “routine” flight—when the craneless news was broken to the public.
A terse, unemotional press release from the Department of the Interior, an announcement that urged citizens to cooperate by reporting any and all sightings of tall white birds, hit the media like a ton of human interest bricks.
Every TV network and most of the nation’s papers gave the story major play. The scope of the coverage caught the government off-guard, as did public response. Interior’s switchboards were flashing like a light-show gone stoned mad at the Fillmore, and every ecology-oriented organiz-ation from the Sierra Club to the Girl Scouts wired pledges of assistance. The following day the Secretary of the Interior himself was obliged to call a press conference (It made the six o’clock and eleven o’clock news). “Umm, ah, er, hum,” said the Secretary. “No cause for extreme concern.” Although the cranes constitute a single flock, they travel in smaller units of one to three families, the Secretary explained. And the families nest miles apart.
There was no probable way the entire flock could have met foul play (“Ahem. No pun intended”) either from humans or the natural elements. The whooper flyway passes almost entirely over isolated regions, and the Canadian wilderness is vast. Sooner or later these splendid birds will turn up. Even should they

remain incommuni-cado all summer, they would certainly be back in Texas come fall.
The Secretary believed his remarks, as men of his station sometimes do. His underlings in the Fish and Wildlife Service believed them, too. Up in Canada, the skinny, pipe-puffing official shook like the icecubes in a fire-eater’s highball and was not so sure. As for field biol-ogist Jim McGhee, he sucked on a bottle of Uncle Ben’s, signed another alimony payment, stared at aerial maps of the terrain he would search next day and muttered to no one in particular, “Wild animals don’t snore.”
308
tomrobbins

80.
despite his title, the Secretary of the Interior was a shallow man. He was given to surfaces, not depths; to cortex, not medulla; to the puff, not the cream. He didn’t understand the interior of anything: not the interior of a tenor sax solo, a painting or a poem; not the interior of an atom, a planet, a spider or his wife’s body; not the interior, least of all, of his own heart and head.
The Secretary of the Interior knew, of course, that there was a brain in his head and that the human brain was Nature’s most magnificent creation. It never occurred to the Secretary of the Interior to wonder why, if the brain, with its webs and cords and stems and ridges and fissures, with its glands and nodes and nerves and lobes and fluids, with its capacity to perceive and analyze and refine and edit and store, with its talent for orchestrating emotions ranging from eye- rolling ecstasy to loose-bowel fear, with its appetite for input and its generosity with output; it never occurred to the Secretary to wonder why the brain, if it is as awesomely magnificent as it purports to be, why the brain would waste its time hanging around inside a head such as his.
Maybe some brains just like the easy life. The Secretary of the Interior did not put many demands on his brain.
Mainly, he wanted only to be informed if this or that action would be politically expedient. For example, the Secretary went to his brain there where it was lolling lazily in its cerebral hammock, sipping oxygen and blood, absently humming some electrochemical folderol culled from two billion years of continuous biological chatter; a brain that bore no neon scars of love, that showed no signs of having ever been dazzled or crunched by art, that obviously was e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 309
not staying awake nights puzzling over what Jesus really meant when he said, “If a seed goes into the ground and dies, then it will grow”; a brain that would have appeared preponderantly placid were it not for the skinning knife, the automatic rifle, the bazooka, the machete, the napalm, clubs, arrows and grenades that were piled under its pillow where they might be employed instantly to chop, gut, bludgeon, burn and blast the very first mouse squeak that might threaten it; the Secretary went to his brain, prodded it and asked it how he might end this

whooping crane hubbub in a manner advantageous to himself.
His brain’s immediate reaction (yawn) was that the problem should be passed up the line to some other brain to solve. That, however, was not feasible this time. The only person up the line was the President, and the President’s brain, having been finally cornered after a lifetime of cheating, conning, lying, hustling and vampiring greed-ily on jugulars public and private, was rolled up like a sick armadillo at the moment and could not be enlisted.
Should he get through to the President he could expect only that the President would yell, “Shove those fucking birds up your goddamned ass! What are you doing to protect me?” or something, and the Secretary did not wish to be yelled at by the President. Should he speak to one of the President’s intimate advisers, he would be told in an aseptic German accent that the matter should be turned over to the CIA, and while the Secretary was not entirely opposed to the high aides’ method of putting annoying problems in the hands of the secret police, he wasn’t certain that it was expedient to have his own authority thus usurped.
No, sorry, brain, fat old pal, but you and the Secretary must work it out yourselves.
Under normal conditions, the Secretary might have donned the Pendleton wool shirt his wife had given him for their twenty-second wedding anniversary (Or was it the twenty-third? His brain couldn’t remember), requisi-tioned a jet and gone out personally to lead a massive 310
tomrobbins
crane hunt. Now that would have been good politics. Ha ha! Then, when those kooky environmentalists got in a snit because his branch of government was allowing industry to develop the land the way God intended it to be developed, he could say, “Trust me, friends; I have proven myself an ardent conservationist. I am the man who rescued our whooping cranes!”
Alas, normal conditions did not prevail. The major oil companies were in the act of pulling off a daring economic coup, a brilliant piece of business, on the whole, but one that had of necessity created a simulated shortage of petroleum products, and the citizenry, not understanding what was best for it, was bemoaning what had been labeled an “energy crisis.” The average working man was a helluva lot more concerned about the energy crisis than he was about a

missing flock of goony birds, the Secretary reasoned quite accurately; the Secretary wasn’t convinced the average working man gave a moldy tail feather about those missing birds. Were the Secretary to authorize a large-scale air search for the whoopers, there would most surely be adverse reaction to the quantities of fuel an expedition of that size would require. He simply could not justify such an expenditure of precious petroleum.
So he would do this: he would keep a single light plane plying the wide and capricious migration route; one plane, in the air daily. If the working stiffs complained, he could say, “We’ve got a little bitty economy-sized Cessna looking around for those birds, boys; that’s it.” If the conservationists bitched, he could say, “I’ve got a modern up-to-date reconnaissance aircraft with radar and all the latest equipment in the sky this very moment searching every inch of isolated territory for those marvelous herons, and I won’t rest until they are safely back where they belong.”
Umm. Yes. Yes, indeed. All bases touched. Good work, faithful brain. You’ve earned a siesta.
Politics served, the Secretary reassured himself that the herons or cranes or whatever they were would turn up in the near future. Good Lord, there were hundreds of e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 311
square miles of lowland marsh in Saskatchewan that hadn’t even been peeked at yet. The birds were in there, probably, or nestled into some muskeg swamp in the Canuck boonies. They’d show up eventually, safe and sound. If only the media would let the matter drop, the public majority would forget it quicker than a Bufferin can dissolve in the cutaway belly of a TV doll.
Indeed, the media might have let the matter drop. And the masses might have forgotten the vanished birds. If it hadn’t been for Jim McGhee.
One evening toward sunset, the Canadian field biolo-gist stood up from his bottle of Uncle Ben’s and walked away into the bush without pack or provisions.
On his third morning in the wilderness, after three chill nights among sleepers who do not snore, a bedraggled McGhee was sitting on a log when he saw a snake slink by. The snake was moving fast. It carried a card under its tongue. The card was the jack of hearts. “I must get to Delores del Ruby at once,” hissed the snake. It slithered away toward the south.

Behind in Fort Smith, McGhee had left a note. There was no mention in the note of McGhee’s ex-wife or of his two little freckle-faced sons. But the note made numerous references to whoopers, closing, in fact, with the line “I have gone to join them in extinction.”
So, to the Secretary of the Interior’s chagrin, the missing flock was once again warm copy. The flurry touched off by Jim McGhee was characterized, somewhat sensationally, by this Page One-filling headline in the New York Daily News: whooping crane suicide.
312
tomrobbins

81.
sissy. You darling. What’s happening? You’re holed up on East Tenth Street, growing pale. Pale as a phantom tangled in lace curtains. Pale as Easter. Pale as the foam on a maniac’s lips. Even your thumbs are losing their cheery sanguine sheen.
What’s happening, honey? Outside, it’s turning warm.
Folks in the less respectable tenements are beginning to take the evening air from their fire escapes. Down the street, below Avenue B, the Puerto Rican husbands have moved their domino games onto the sidewalks. The little bow- wows and woof-woofs are starting to pant again.
Always a bad sign. Julian says you won’t be using your air conditioner as much this summer. Energy crisis.
Sissy, the sun is making personal appearances daily, hamming it up in typical Leo fashion; but you, what do you think you are, a mushroom? Two mushrooms?
Unquestionably, you have a lot to think over. If you have lived your whole life in an unrealistic manner, as so many people have claimed, then you suppose that for the past year and a half you have been taking reality lessons.
You’ve had some powerful teachers, too. Julian, Bonanza Jellybean, the Chink, Dr. Robbins.
From two of those teachers you have learned that in olden times everything was run by women. And that everything was better then. That is stunning information.
You wonder what it should mean to you, personally. Julian says it’s rubbish, that most anthropologists dispute the matriarchal theory. On that subject, Dr. Robbins has been silent.
Dr. Robbins does telephone you, however. About once a week. Just checking up on a former patient, he says. His e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 313

style amuses you. He invites you to lunch, to opium dens, to a flea circus. You refuse. You think he wants to fuck you. It would be fun, but not worth it. Definitely not worth it. You may know next to zilch about reality, but you know a thing or two about magic. Your thumbs taught you. Magic requires a certain purity. Without purity, magic weakens. You still have hopes that you and Julian can create together a magical relationship. So you try now to keep it pure.
Julian has become quite understanding. He doesn’t interrupt your thinking anymore. You sit on the bed by the empty birdcage, run through your exercises and let the cow of your mind eat its way out of the haystack that has collapsed on it. You feel that you will stay in this new life that is so much stranger to you than your old strange one.
You feel that you will stay with Julian. In a year or two, when the time is right for both of you, you think you might have Julian’s baby.
Oh Sissy! Have you forgotten, then, Madame Zoe’s prophecy?

82.
sissy, don’t you believe you ought to go out for a hot dog? Or a wedge of pizza? You know, some delicacy that can be balanced between sets of fingers without involving thumbs. Up First Avenue, near Bellevue Hospital, there’s a pushcart. The walk would do you good. The sunshine.
Couldn’t you think just as well, if you must think, in Tompkins Square Park? On a wino-nourishing bench where pigeons pop their buttons? You have a way with birds.
Clever, isn’t it, Sissy, the way the author turned the subject to birds? Have birds been on your mind lately? What 314
tomrobbins
was your reaction to the article in this morning’s Times?
The one that reported that Congress had given the Justice Department the authority to deal severely with any person or persons found to be interfering with the safety or free movement of the world’s last flock of whooping cranes.
You say you aren’t thinking about whooping cranes?
Well, if you say so.
You aren’t thinking about cranes this morning. You’re thinking about . . . time.
The Clock People are waiting for the end of time. The Chink says it’s going to be a long wait.
You wonder, as so many have wondered, did time have a beginning? Will it stop? Or are the past and the future manufactured by the present? Such questions are as important as they are unfashionable.
You read where Joe DiMaggio ordered that fresh red roses be placed on Marilyn Monroe’s grave every three days, forever. Not for Joe DiMaggio’s lifetime, mind you, or the duration of Hollywood, its films and its cemeteries, but forever.

And you think, “If there is an end of time, Joe DiMaggio is going to have some money coming back.”

83.
so. sissy. You don’t go out much. Only occasionally do you even look outside. From your windows as from windows everywhere, nowadays, you can see the cake crumbling.
Julian says we’re heading for a depression. Or worse.
He mentions famines, plagues, purges. When he says these things, he cocks his dark head to one side, as if, like the Mohawk he ought to be, he can hear famine gathering its dusty forces, preparing to march over from the Sahara, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 315
India, Starving Armenia. He hears Panic in the dressing room, putting on its skeleton suit. He hears the sizzling silence of the energy crisis. “Here in America we are reverting to our native fascism,” says this native American, ignoring twelve thousand years of his own people’s history. The international situation is desperate, as usual.
Not overly optimistic, Julian feels, nevertheless, that if a liberal Democrat is elected President in 1976, a world economic poop-out can be avoided. As for Dr. Robbins, he just laughs into the telephone. “The cake is crumbling,” he says to you in an awed whisper. “Isn’t it grand? ”
You don’t know if it’s grand or horrible. You only know that hitchhiking didn’t bring it on. Hitchhiking can’t stop it.
In the tub, you cause a thumb to plow through the scented water. How evenly the bubbles break before its sleek snout; how perfect its wake. Then you jerk your wrist in a special, staccato way, and suddenly the thumb is twitching crazily underwater, like a diver who contacted mercury poisoning sucking off a mermaid.
Thus you amuse yourself. You smile. But there are wrinkled tracks on your brow. Did whooping cranes make them?
What’s that? Someone at the door. Julian leaves off his painting to answer. Well, surprise, surprise. You couldn’t mistake that nasty drawl.

The Countess hasn’t been around in quite a while. Julian painted ahead and has no more to do for him. And since your husband has begun to paint for a German account, it isn’t likely he’ll get any more calls for pastoral landscapes suffused with the luminous haze of Yoni Yum or silvered with dreamy drops of Dew. The Countess likes to be exclusive, if not unique. As for you, you haven’t had a modeling assignment since the Dakota de-bacle. Your eyes, while still beautiful, have lost some of their innocence; your mouth, while still ripe, has lost some of its perk. Too, your little sojourn in Dr. Gold-316
tomrobbins
man’s spa for half-rich fuck-ups couldn’t have enhanced your career. Oh well. You dry and wrap yourself and patter in to see your old benefactor.
Powdered stubble pricks your face as you kiss. Upon his monocle are the dried deposits of sauces that no French chef will ever stir again. In a voice that sounds the way a can of cheap dog food would sound if a can of cheap dog food could speak, he tells you you are looking swell. “Domesticity, the male’s meat, the female’s poison, seems to become you,” he says. A can of Skippy with a slight lisp.
And how is the Countess? “Shit O dear!” he exclaims.
“Sales are down more than ten percent. Are things so desperate that women can’t spend a few pennies to control their atavistic stench? I ask you. A samurai warrior, before going into battle, would burn incense in his helmet so that if an enemy took his head he would at least offer his beheader a pleasant aroma. Now, it appears to me that no matter how bleak a future a woman faces, she could at least face it with an inoffensive vagina.”
“You’re convinced, then, the future is bleak?” asks Julian. He had been painting a sprite beside a pellucid pool.
The Countess’s store teeth clack compulsively. Rat a tat tat! Dental gangbusters. “Indeed,” he says. “This country is in one hell of a mess.”
“It all depends on how you look at it,” you say.
Julian and the Countess pause and stare at you expectantly. They suppose that you are going to explain yourself, to tell them how national events may be

viewed in a light that makes them seem less messy. But you have nothing to add. You meant only what you said, that it all depends on how you look at it, that everything, always, depends on how it is perceived, and that the perceiver has the ability to adjust his perceptions.
Conversation resumes. Julian and the Countess make small talk about small issues: the economy, politics. You are in postbath terrycloth, feeling a bit drowsy.
Suddenly, the Countess whirls at you. He gets right in e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 317
your face. His smile looks as if it had been rear-ended at an intersection. He cracks a question at you; it is like Delores cracking her whip. “Why haven’t you spoken out about the whooping cranes, Sissy?” Crack!
“What . . . what do you mean?”
“You know very well what I mean. I’ve been working day and night in the lab and haven’t paid attention to the news. But last evening I heard that the whooping cranes were missing. The whole bloody flock. Truman gave me the details. He was practically in tears. There’s been a furor about it . . .”
“Yes, it’s been in the papers incessantly,” interrupts Julian.
“There’s been a furor about it, and rightly so. My question is, why haven’t you spoken out? I know where those cranes are, and so do you.”
Julian gawks at you. Bewilderment widens his eyes.
“What do you mean?” Your voice is as soft and tremu-lous as a butterfly’s good- by.
“Sissy, don’t play dumb with me! You’re a good model but a shitty actress. The cowgirls are involved in this whooping crane disappearance. You know perfectly well they are. Last seen in Nebraska. Didn’t make it to Canada. Siwash Lake is between Nebraska and Canada.
The cowgirls have possession of Siwash Lake. And who else but Jellybean’s wild cunts could possibly conceive of doing something so diabolical as to tamper

with the last flock of some nearly extinct birds? Of course they’re behind it. Of course they are. How much do you know about it? Have they murdered those cranes the way they murdered my moo cows?”
“I don’t know anything about it,” you protest. You sense your pale flesh turning paler.
Julian continues to gawk, but now his eyes have been narrowed by suspicion. The Countess leans so far into your face that you are almost wearing his monocle.
“Sissy, you’re either a liar or a fool,” the Countess spits,
“and you may be a weirdo but I’ve never known you to be 318 tomrobbins
stupid. You’re trying to protect those scuzzy bitches. Well, let your conscience be your guide, as my mommy used to say, but it won’t work. I have a call placed to the Secretary of the Interior, a simple jerk but a jerk who never forgets a political favor. I’ll be speaking to him right after lunch.
And I’m going to tell him where to find his whooping cranes. I’d tell the President directly, if he wasn’t busy driving himself berserk trying to avoid stepping in his own shit. But the Interior Secretary will do. He’s a law and order man, and he’ll take care of it nicely. He’ll also take all the credit for it, but don’t think he won’t find a way to reward me. Of course, it will be nearly reward enough just seeing those cowgirls get what’s coming to them. Those stinking sluts are going to suffer . . .”
There is then a sound such as neither the Countess nor Julian Gitche has ever heard. They do not know, are never to know, whether the sound issued from your throat or was produced by your first or most preaxial digit as it was thrown through air. In any case, that sound is quickly obscured by another, the sound of your right thumb striking—with astonishing force—the Countess’s face.
Immediately, the thumb strikes again, this time shatter-ing the Countess’s monocle against his eye.
“Shit O dear,” the Countess gasps. His dentures fall onto the shag rug, as if to

graze there.
Then . . . O my God and Goddesses! . . . Can you believe it? . . . The left thumb strikes.
Thumbs that not once in a lifetime had been raised in anger; thumbs that had known risk often but never violence; thumbs that had invoked and mastered secret Universal Forces without acquiring the faintest stain of evil; thumbs that had been generous and artful; thumbs that were considered so delicate and precious that their owner would not so much as shake hands for fear of damage; those same thumbs, wound ’round with the glory of a million innovative and virtuoso hitchhikes, are now smashing the face of a human being.
What are you doing, Sissy? I’ll tell you what you’re do-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 319
ing. You’re swinging them like ballbats, like the legendary swatters of Babe Ruth, socking flaming homers over the left-field fence of Hell. Beads of blood land noiselessly upon the keys of the white piano.
Julian is paralyzed. He cannot stop you. He cannot speak. You continue to swing and swat. The Countess is out on his feet. His eyes are closed. His legs wobble. He does a pathetic dance, like a drunken old fool trying to boogie with a chorus girl. Coagulating polka dots turn his linen suit into clown garb. He topples forward to meet your onrushing thumb (the thumb that once made the Pennsylvania Turnpike into a playground); the thunder of it straightens him up, sends him over backward. Motionless, he lies on the floor, a crimson part in his thinning hair, a bright ooze at each nostril.
The poodledog, Butty, short for Butterfinger, had been awakened by the commotion and had trotted into the living room to check it out. You notice he is growling at you now, baring his teeth at your unprotected ankles. You catch him broadside with a low swing, sending him flying to the opposite wall, where he flattens out with a breathless whimper against a Dufy lithograph. Poodle and print drop to the carpet together, a heap of broken glass, doggy curls and images of sailboats so fanciful they seemed suited only for lakes of lemonade.
Julian finds his voice. “Sissy,” he says, each syllable an organ note of horror, pumped from the pipes at a Dracula matinée, “Oh Sissy. What have you done?”

Of course, he knows what you have done; it is all too obvious. What Julian means is why did you do what you did, how could you have done it. And you are incapable of telling him. You emerge from your trance of fury, observe the aftermath with clear if disbelieving eyes, yet nowhere inside you is there an explanation dying to catch the next bus downtown. The word cowgirls starts to form in your mouth, but it dissolves.
Never mind. This is no time for explanations. Somebody had better call an ambulance.
320
tomrobbins

84.
whatever one’s theory of time, one had to admit that the big clock in the hospital corridor moved unusually slowly. One could imagine its springs having been French-kissed by the junior jam-taster at Knott’s Berry Farm.
Seated on a spotless wooden bench that had known neither pigeon nor wino, Sissy and Julian stared at the clock, waiting for its minutes to chase its hours around—but it was a warm day and the minutes were walking.
How many hours passed before the surgeon emerged from his operating room? Sissy and Julian didn’t know.
The clock could not be believed. When the surgeon finally did emerge, the Gitches rose to meet him. He addressed them with efficient gravity.
“Well, he’s not out of danger, but I think we can safely say he’s going to make it. I’d be pretty surprised if he didn’t. However, there is evidence of injury to the frontal lobe, and I have reason to fear that this injury may be permanent. The patient may never again function as a normal human being.”
“Brain damage,” muttered Julian, shaking his head. Then, more distinctly, if somewhat hysterically, he asked, “You mean he’s going to be a vegetable? ”
Sissy, to whom abnormal function was old hat, could not prevent her mind’s eye from focusing upon certain apparitions: a monoclewearing asparagus, for example; turnip teeth clamped upon an ivory cigarette holder; a tomato made redder by Ripple; Veggie the Gay Cucum-ber. To drive these images from view, she re-examined her thumbs. They were sore and bruised, but essentially e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 321
unimpaired. All those years she had underestimated their physical strength.
“Vegetable?” repeated the doctor. He closed his eyes momentarily, as if he, too, were visited by strange hallucinations from the produce stalls. “Vegetable? I

wouldn’t say that, no. We won’t ascertain the extent of the injury for some days, but there is a genuine possibility of severe and lasting behavioral defects. I wouldn’t classify it in the vegetable category, however.” The surgeon didn’t mention animal or mineral.
Julian asked a few more questions. The answers added little to what had been said. Preparing to take his leave, the surgeon spoke to Sissy. “Mrs. Gitche, this hospital had no choice but to report this matter to the authorities. You might appreciate being informed that a warrant for your arrest has been prepared. If I were you, I’d go down to police headquarters right now and, er, negotiate. Considering the circumstances, the, ah, unusual and personal nature of the, er, instrument that caused the injury, well, you wouldn’t want the press to get wind of this, I wouldn’t think . . .”
“Oh, we will, Doctor,” blurted Julian. “We’ll go immediately.”
Julian was fibbing. He wanted Sissy to turn herself in, but not immediately. “Let’s go home first,” he said.
“But why?” protested Sissy. “Hadn’t we best just get on down there and get it over with?”
“Sweetheart, you look dreadful. Dreadful. That old jumpsuit. It’s even got blood on it. You haven’t a trace of make-up. I want you to come home and let me help you into the dress I bought you, the party dress, the low-cut one. And make yourself up. You’re a beautiful woman and there’s no harm in taking advantage of it. We’ll let the authorities know we’re citizens of some standing. It’s important to impress them. Cops are just as susceptible to physical charm as any other men. Turn them on a bit, if that’s what it takes. It’ll go easier for you. Here, you wait 322
tomrobbins
here. I’ll duck into the gift shop” (They were now in the hospital lobby) “and get you some rouge. You never wear it, and you’re looking pale.” Julian headed for the cosmetics counter, where he found the selection extensive.
There is an animal called the water mongoose. It inhabits the swamps of Asia. The water mongoose has one grand trick up its sleeve (although up its sleeve is not exactly where the trick is at). It can distend its anal orifice until it (the anal

orifice) looks like a ripe red fruit. Then the water mongoose stands very, very still. Sooner or later, a bird will come along and start to peck the “fruit.”
Whereupon the water mongoose whirls around rapidly and eats the bird. Even Cowgirls Get the Blues could find a parable in that, if it wanted to—but that might be too far-fetched.

85.
carnival season rears its mad, masked head just before Ash Wednesday, the austere first day of the Roman Catholic forty-day Lenten fast. Carnival, whether lasting three days, as it does in most places, or two weeks, as it does in a few looser locales, culminates on Mardi Gras, or Fat Tuesday, with particularly riotous merrymaking.
The commonly accepted view is that carnival originated as a final fling on the part of good Christians before they commenced their forty days of fasting and penitence in preparation for Easter. It is written in encyclopedias and taught in universities that the word carnival is derived from the Latin carne levare, meaning “the putting away of flesh.” Thus, it is thought to refer to some festive, last-minute, pre-Lenten carnivorousness, for during Lent none of the faithful may eat meat.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 323
Poppycock. Balderdash. And flapdoodle. In other words, bullshit.
The carnival celebrated in Catholic lands is actually an adaptation of an ancient pagan whoopdedoohoo, the Festival of Dionysus, which in turn was adapted from the still older Haloa and Thesmophoria, two of the fertility festivals of the mother goddess Demeter.
(In Classical Greece, at the time when paternal rule began to ace out maternal, newcomer Dionysus was elevated to the Olympic Council, replacing the hearth goddess, Hestia, and taking over Demeter’s festivals. For untold thousands of years, there had been no male deities in Europe. Dionysus, incidentally, was originally associated with psychedelic mushrooms, first the Amanita muscaria and later the smoother, more delightful Psilocybe. As the paternalistic Christian influence gained power, Dionysus was purged of his mushroom practices and was pronounced the god of wine. The Church, and the political and business interests who found Christianity a perfect front, much preferred the masses to use booze, which depresses the senses, instead of mushrooms, which illuminate

them, just as they preferred that the aggressive logic of the paternal stereotype supplant the loving grace of maternalism. If kissing is man’s greatest invention, then fermentation and patriarchy compete with the domestication of animals for the distinction of being man’s worst folly, and no doubt the three combined long ago, the one growing out of the others, to foster civilization and lead Western humanity to its present state of decline. Cha cha cha.) In truth, the word carnival is derived from carrus navalis, “cart of the sea.” This was a boat-shaped vehicle on wheels used in the processions of Dionysus, and from which all kinds of witty and lust-inducing songs were sung. These ship carts, carri navales, making reference as they did to Dionysus’ fabled underwater retreat in the grottos of the sea goddess, Thetis, from which he emerged at festival time, were accompanied by musicians and
324
tomrobbins
dancers of both sexes, skimpily clad or nude. They continued to be pulled through the streets in European festivals until the later Middle Ages, and today have their less nautical and less naughty counterparts in Mardi Gras floats.
The pagan festivals were deeply entrenched in the hearts and minds of the people, and they weren’t inclined to give them up. Substitute the cross of guilt and suffering for the sea cart of joy and fecundity? Somehow that didn’t seem like an A-1 good deal. They ran it up a flagpole and only a few paranoiacs and uncontrolled spastics saluted it.
So the Church shrewdly compromised. It permitted carnival, but conspired to give it Christian significance, gradually succeeding in divorcing it from carefree fertility and associating it instead with self-denial and death (albeit, at three days, the shortest death in history, according to the Guinness Book of World Records — and as Jesus himself once said, “You’re either for us or a Guinness”).
Reader, the foregoing information concerning carnival is presented here merely as an example of the sort of facts uncovered by Dr. Robbins during his investigation of paganism. If Sissy was content to sit and think about the
 
meaning of her pagan heritage, as described by the Chink, if she was as passive as a baked turkey in her consideration of the pagan potential in modern America (again, as suggested by the Chink), then Dr. Robbins took a more active approach. In the days since he had called in well at the Goldman Clinic, he had engaged in research. Un-biased data about our pagan past was not extensive— our Christian leadership had seen to that—but Dr. Robbins found enough to fascinate him. He had, as a matter of fact, just returned from a profitable morning of scholar-ship in the public library when his telephone broke a long silence, shrieking from its stationary pedestal as if it thought itself a flashy car being driven at high speeds over e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 325
back-country roads. Well, even telephones can dream, can’t they?
It was Sissy calling. She was upset. In distress. She had just ditched Julian at St. Vincent’s Hospital and must see Dr. Robbins at once.
Naturally, Robbins was willing, but he pressed for further details. So Sissy blabbed the whole bloody thing.
“My, my,” said Dr. Robbins. “My oh my. This is bad, this is very bad, but you mustn’t think of it as a razor held to the Dali’s mustache of your life. Violence stinks, no matter which end of it you’re on. But now and then there’s nothing left to do but hit the other person over the head with a frying pan. Sometimes people are just begging for that frypan, and if we weaken for a moment and honor their request, we should regard it as impulsive phi-lanthropy, which we aren’t in any position to afford, but shouldn’t regret it too loudly lest we spoil the purity of the deed.
“Now. I don’t really want you coming to my place, in case the cops trace you here. I’ve got half a kilo of grass stashed here, not to mention a couple of other embarrassing odds and ends. So, tell you what we can do. We’ll meet at six this evening in my aunt’s house in Passaic, New Jersey. My aunt’s away and I have the keys. A safer place you couldn’t find. You can get to Passaic, can’t you? It’s only twenty minutes from Manhattan. Here’s my aunt’s address.
“Say, Sissy, by the way. Did you know that Nijinsky once played tennis in Passaic, New Jersey? He did. Only time he played tennis in his life. And the only historical event I would like to have filmed. Nijinsky playing tennis in Passaic, New Jersey. Wow! Now that’d be a movie fit to be shown to Jesus, Dionysus

and Demeter.”
326
tomrobbins

86.
after talking with dr. robbins, Sissy felt better—but not much. To the knapsack of her guilt was now added another rock, this one flecked with running-out-on- Julian.
“Maybe it’s just that my perspective is wrong,” ventured Sissy. She thought that she would see if there wasn’t some positive way to view her actions. It might take time (ah, time!) to arrive at such a vantage point, however, and urgency was running up her leg like a mouse.
After that thumping she’d given the Countess, the authorities would say she was crazy for sure. And one thing she did not want, could not tolerate, was to be committed to the Goldman Clinic or its state-funded equivalent. She felt guilt, she felt sorrow, shame and confusion, but she did not feel that she owed society any accounting for her behavior, as bad as her behavior might have been. Society had never looked upon her with favor. It had been eager to write her off when she was just a little girl. Society might have institutionalized her way back then if she had cooperated. Society had neither liked her nor believed in her, but luckily she had liked herself and believed in herself, and although she recognized that she had floundered in recent years, erred in recent hours, she still liked and believed, and the reckoning she must make was with herself, not with society, especially not with a society that was willing to put a matter as delicate as this in the kitten-crusher hands of the police.
Thus, Sissy Hankshaw Gitche, a self-recognized ongoing system of uncommon abilities and unexpected vices, headed for New Jersey; for options, alternatives, choices.
And didn’t it feel sweet to be up to her armpits in traffic e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 327
again, to be dancing cheek to cheek with traffic, to be charming the deadly snake of traffic, to be sticking her thumb into the pie of traffic, Oh she could bouncy- wouncy baby Volkswagens on her knees and suck on Italian racing cars just to freshen her breath, traffic was her element, her medium, the vocabulary from which she snatched the words of her poem, Oh didn’t her hands come back to

life with a squeal! and wasn’t it swee-eet?
So happy was Sissy to pick that conservative blue Econoline van out of the throng on Canal Street and draw it to her as if on a string that she failed to look over its driver until she was seated and he was stomping the gas-feed. It was with a sense of disgust at her own failure that she scrutinized his sweaty brow, his smug, hot leer, his eyes so starved for erogenous scenery that they did not register her thumbs. Her heart sank another twenty fathoms when she saw his gun and his knife.

87.
laws, it is said, are for protection of the people. It’s unfortunate that there are no statistics on the number of lives that are clobbered yearly as a result of laws: outmoded laws; laws that found their way onto the books as a result of ignorance, hysteria or political haymaking; antilife laws; biased laws; laws that pretend that reality is fixed and nature is definable; laws that deny people the right to refuse protection. A survey such as that could keep a dozen dull sociologists out of mischief for months.
(Ford Foundation, are you reading this book?) The first laws prohibiting hitchhiking were enacted in New Jersey in the 1920s to keep city-bred flapper freeloaders away from selected resorts and rural paradises.
New Jersey remains one of two states (Hawaii, the other) 328 tomrobbins
where hitchhiking is both completely illegal and the law strictly enforced. It was because of the Jersey ban, and the toughness of its state patrol, that Sissy had selected the blue van. She was on Canal Street, near the entrance to the West Side Highway. She had hoped to get a ride up the West Side Highway and over the George Washington Bridge, putting her as close as possible to Passaic, keeping her hitching—as much as she capital-A Adored it!—to a minimum once in Jersey. The blue van had Jersey plates.
That’s why she chose it.
It had been a mutual choice, for the blue van’s driver had spotted Sissy a block away and had manuevered into the curb lane. He had started talking even before he braked, and once Sissy was aboard he was rapping away at such an amphetamine clip that had he died at that moment the undertaker would have had to beat his tongue to death with a stick.
He was also unzipping his pants.
“I’m going to give it to you like you’ve never had it before. Oh, you didn’t know it could be this good. You’re gonna like it. You’re gonna like it. You’re gonna

like it so good. You’re gonna love it so much you’re gonna cry.
You’re gonna cry and cry. Do you like to cry? Do you like it when it hurts a little bit? Whatever happens to you, it’ll be worth it. The way I’m gonna give it to you, it’ll be worth anything. Everything. Go ahead and cry if you want to. I like it when women cry. It means they appreciate me.” Etc., etc.
The van pulled off Canal, down a deadend street between warehouses. In the rear of the vehicle was a soiled mattress.
By then, the driver had his organ out in the late afternoon sunlight. It was erect and of Kentucky Derby proportions.
With a swift swoosh that gave the June air bad memories of winter, Sissy’s left thumb came down hard on the penis top, nearly cleaving it to the root. The driver howled. His finger fumbled for gun trigger. Before he e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 329
could squeeze it, however, the thumb splatted between his eyes. Twice. Three times. He lost control of the van. It lumbered into a street lamp, giving both van and lamp-post a taste of what it’s like to be organic.
Sissy lept from the vehicle and ran. Four or five blocks away, out of breath but safe in the neon aura of a just-closing working man’s luncheonette, she stopped to rest.
The tears the rapist had longed for made their appearance, heavy and hot, just the way he would have liked them.
The thought of it made her stop crying.
She examined her thumb. Fresh bruises, like blue jelly-fish, were floating lazily to the surface. Sore muscles twitched mechanically, as if typing an essay: “The Thumb As Weapon.”
“Twice in one day,” Sissy sobbed. “Twice in one day.”
Abruptly, the sobbing ceased. With a look of determination that could have served as the dust jacket for any number of how-to-succeed manuals, Sissy announced in a clear, hard voice, “Okay! If they want me normal, then normal,

by God, is what they’re gonna get!”
She hailed a taxi. Rode uptown to the Port Authority Bus Terminal. Bought a one-way ticket to Richmond, Virginia.
As the southbound Greyhound hissed through the Jersey flats, she recalled that several centuries ago this fetid fairyland of oil refineries had been jumping with whooping cranes.

88.
this novel now has as many chapters as a piano has keys (Eat your hearts out, ye writers of ukuleles and pic-colos!), and in point of fact it would be but moderately trite to label this the “piano chapter.” For as Chapter 88
330
tomrobbins
rears its hastily typed head, Julian Gitche is sponging dried Countess blood from the keyboard of his white baby grand, sponging, gulping Scotch and going slightly bananas wondering what has happened to his wife.
And up in Passaic, New Jersey, where Nijinsky once played tennis in ballet slippers, there was another piano, this one a battered old upright in the parlor of an aunt. And there, another man was puzzling where Sissy might be.
Dr. Robbins didn’t play the piano. In order to distract his thoughts from the fact of Sissy’s lateness (if one’s philosophy of time permits one to accept as facts such notions as late or early), he toked on reefers and outlined a movie. Not a movie of Nijinsky leaping twenty-five feet in the air trying to backhand a lob in Passaic, New Jersey: it was too “late” for that, time and brain being the odd couple they are. No, Dr. Robbins was thinking how it might be interesting to make a film from Adelle Davis’s perennial best seller, Let’s Eat Right to Keep Fit.
Representing a classic confrontation between good and evil—in this case, nutrition versus unhealthy diet—the story had definite box office appeal. The role of the hero, Protein, probably should be filled by big Jim Brown, although Burt Reynolds undoubtedly would pull strings to try to get the part. Sunny Doris Day would be a clear choice to play the heroine, Vitamin C, and Orson Welles, oozing saturated fatty acids from the pits of his flesh, could win an Oscar for his interpretation of the villainous Cholesterol. The film might begin on a stormy night in the central nervous system. Alarmed, the ever-watchful pituitary gland

dispatches a couple of trusted hormones with a message for the adrenals. Even though it’s all downstream, the going is rough because of boulders of white sugar and passageways dangerously narrowed due to atherosclerosis. Suddenly . ..
Oh come on, Robbins, that’s enough! If you can’t play the piano, why don’t you just watch TV?
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 331

89.
sissy’s bus, transportation obtained with money instead of magic—alas, our heroine seems to be following in the footsteps of the modern world—rolled into a sleeping Richmond with the milkmen.
Dawn lay on the chops of the city like a washcloth: still, damp, heavy, warm. By the calendar, summer was more than a week away, but heat had caught up with Richmond; it had the seat of Richmond’s pants in its teeth.
Pretty swell pants Richmond was wearing these days, too. In 1973, Richmond had moved ahead of Atlanta, the South’s showcase city, in per capita income. Almost everywhere Sissy looked, there were signs of prosperity.
New office buildings, factories, apartment houses, schools, shopping centers. It was a bit difficult, sometimes, to distinguish one from the other—the factories and schools were especially similar—but there they were, showing confident faces, one and all, to the rising sun, brighter, cleaner, more solid than any pine groves that had ever stood in their places. More permanent? Well, we’ll see.
Industry in the city was much more diversified than in the Eisenhower Years. In fact, several major tobacco firms, including Larus Brothers and Liggett & Meyers had discontinued operations in Richmond, and only Philip Morris, with its mammoth new plant and research center, had ventured any notable expansion. Nevertheless, a golden effluvium still toasted the air of South Richmond. At least, it seemed so to Sissy. Maybe it was merely memory speaking into her nostrils.
Prosperity had not overlooked South Richmond. Only recently, the angel of economic visions had flapped its wings in Sissy’s old neighborhood, knocking rickety 332
tomrobbins
houses to and fro with each vital beat. Every dwelling in her old block had been condemned and evacuated, in preparation for the demolition that, miraculously, fifty years of domestic brawls had not wrought.

The Hankshaw residence had been boarded up clumsily, like a box hastily readied for some funky Houdini’s escape trick. It was a house dead on its feet. It looked like the shell for a termite’s taco.
Sissy paid the taxi driver and walked to the front door.
By pushing strenuously with her shoulder, she was able to separate boards from nails to the extent that the door opened four or five inches. She looked inside.
Sagging linoleum. Peeling wallpaper. Dust doing its dust dance in the morning light. Nothing to indicate that a man and woman had once lived here in love and hate, had conceived in one of these rooms or the other, three children; one of them a daughter distinguished by a certain anatomical slapstick that had caused the man and woman much embarrassment until the daughter had grown into a teen-ager, in this very house, here, dribbling jam on the floor, pee in the bowl and dreams on the pillows, had grown into a teen-ager and run away, never contacting her family again, sparing them further discomfort, forgotten by them, finally unknown to them except as a monster girl that sometimes crawled into their night-mares. Or so Sissy believed.
Just as she turned to leave, however, a widening shaft of sunlight illuminated a corner, instantly remembered as the corner where her mama’s sewing table had long stood, and there, thumbtacked at eye level on the wall were six or eight bright pages ripped from magazines, advertisement pages, pages upon which a tall blond girl, hands mysteriously hidden, posed in various romantic settings, urging the women of the world to purchase a well-known feminine hygiene spray. None other.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 333

90.
in richmond, it was almost possible not to hear the cake crumbling, smell the bacon burning. A recent magazine article had stated, “Unlike most of the nation, Richmond is thriving.” The economic and psychic depression that was sucking the smile off of the face of Western civilization could barely be noticed in this proud Southern town. Of course, Sissy seldom noticed such things, anyhow. What she did notice, on her homecoming day, was a lot of spiffy new cars, many of them British imports (Richmond being obsessively Anglophilic). She thought that the hitchhiking would be interesting here, perhaps more interesting than in her girlhood—but she wasn’t hitching. It was inside another taxi that Sissy rode to the midtown medical building where she remembered that Dr. Dreyfus had had his office.
The office was still there, all right, but it had changed.
Whereas on Sissy’s first visit there had been two or three tastefully framed prints on the wall, the place now looked more like an art gallery than a doctor’s office. Everywhere there were reproductions of Picasso, Bonnard, Renoir, Braque, Utrillo, Dufy, Soutine, Gauguin, Degas, Rousseau, Gris, Matisse, Cézanne, Monet, Manet, Minet, Menet, Munet and others. Many were not framed, but were pinned to the walls in such close proximity that they frequently overlapped, bumping each other like fish in a school. It was as if a survey of modern French painting had gotten mixed up with an aquarium.
The receptionist was away from her desk, so Sissy stared at the tanks full of Gauguin guppies and Picasso triggerfish. Eventually, a woman came in from a rear cubi-cle to inform Sissy that the office was closed. Closed? Yes.
334
tomrobbins
Permanently. Dr. Dreyfus had retired the previous week and the woman was there putting things in order, referring patients to other plastic surgeons, closing

the books and so forth.
“I’d be happy to refer you to someone else,” said the woman, who was short, juiceless and gray, like a village school principal’s night on the town.
“Only Dr. Dreyfus will do,” Sissy pleaded. “I’m sorry,” said the woman.
“But if he just retired last week, he could still do one more operation, couldn’t he?”
“I’m afraid not,” said the woman. “Not a chance of it.” “Is he ill or something?”
The woman didn’t answer immediately. “That’s a matter of opinion,” she sighed at last. “You’re not from around Richmond, are you?”
Before Sissy could answer, the woman snapped,
“Ma’am, you’re wasting your time and mine. Dr. Dreyfus will not be performing any more surgery, and that’s definite. Now, if you don’t wish a referral, please excuse me.
I’ve got to start taking those fool pictures down. Oh Lord.”
Like a bad habit, another taxi let Sissy fall into it. She gave the cabbie the address the telephone directory had given her. It was in the West End, in one of the better neighborhoods, although not the best. The best neighborhood in Richmond, as in Heaven, is reserved for those of the Christian persuasion.
Dr. Dreyfus himself answered the door. He hadn’t changed much, and he remembered Sissy. Rather, he remembered certain parts of Sissy. If he hadn’t, he wouldn’t have let her in. He had been bothered by journalists, he explained. He didn’t inquire why Sissy had called; he seemed to know. “I’m afraid I can’t help you,” he said.
“Please, child, don’t be dismayed. We all have problems these days. But as the painter Van Gogh said, ‘Mysteries remain, sorrow or melancholy remains, but

the everlast-ing negative is balanced by the positive work which thus e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 335
is achieved, after all.’ I don’t suppose that means very much to you. Here, you read this while I get out of my dressing robe and into my puttering clothes. Some other physician can help you. This will explain why I cannot.”
To his visitor he handed a clipping from a newsprint periodical. “There have been many other articles, but this one says it most objectively.” He left Sissy alone to read: Frustrated artist blows med career through nose
As a boy in Paris, Felix Dreyfus had dreamed of becoming an artist. An older cousin who was a guide at the Louvre let him tag along on tours, where he acquired a precocious knowledge of art history. Alas, Felix’s parents were philistines who constantly deflated the boy’s artistic dreams, while grooming him for a career in medicine.
Young Dreyfus gave in, finishing med school with high marks. If his parents saw in his choice of plastic surgery as a medical specialty the remnants of the old artistic urge—plastic surgery is, after all, a rather sculptural, relatively creative discipline—they did not let on.
Emigrating to the U.S. in the Nazi years, Dr.
Dreyfus developed a successful practice in Richmond, Va. There, he was fairly active as a patron of the arts, and accumulated an extensive collection of books on painters and sculptors. He married his nurse, and they led a quiet, comfortable life.
Then, last month, Dr. Dreyfus, 66, undertook to perform cosmetic surgery on a 14-year-old boy, Bernard Schwartz. A routine operation, it was to alter the size and shape of the boy’s Semitic nose. Although he specialized in injuries to and deformities of the hands, Dr. Dreyfus had successfully completed many “nose jobs.”
When the bandages were removed from Bernie Schwartz’s proboscis, however, the boy’s horrified parents were gaping at what has been called “the 336
tomrobbins

most scandalous incident of deliberate malpractice in the recent history of medicine.”
Succumbing, maniacally, to his suppressed artistic drives, Dr. Felix Dreyfus, disdaining marble, clay and plaster to work in living flesh, had sculptured upon the face of little Bernie Schwartz the world’s first Cubistic nose!
Bernie’s new nose had six nostrils, two in front, two on each side, and three bridges, so that in either profile it looked as if you were seeing it frontally. According to the exuberant Dr. Dreyfus, Bernie’s nose is “simultaneously viewed from several aspects, all the aspects overlapping, so that what we have is a nose in totality, and that totality manages to suggest motion, even when static; it shatters the classical idea of the face in which the nose is fixed and unchanging; it is a nose in a perpetual state of ultimate noseness, yet it is on the very verge of the abstract.”
Dr. Dreyfus’s enthusiasm may be short-lived. The Virginia Medical Board has suspended his license, and it is reported that the surgeon may be permitted to retire as an alternative to being barred permanently from practice. Bernie’s parents, unconvinced by the creator’s glowing aesthetic evaluation of his work, are suing Dr. Dreyfus for three million dollars.
Moreover, the “masterpiece” is doomed. As soon as medically feasible, a team of plastic surgeons in Washington, D.C., will restore the world’s first Cubistic nose to a realistic style that promises to please even devotees of Norman Rockwell. Meanwhile, Bernie Schwartz spends a lot of time indoors.
When Dr. Dreyfus returned, rather sheepishly, to the living room, Sissy rushed to embrace him. She was smiling for the first time in more than twenty-four hours.
“Oh, Doctor!” she cried. “You’ve got to do it. You and nobody else should be allowed to take away my gift.”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 337

91.
“ah the thumb,” mused Dr. Dreyfus, yawning his small eyes so that they might take in the full length and breadth of Sissy’s prodigious pucky-wucks. “The thumb, yes. The thumb the thumb the thumb the thumb the thumb the thumb. One of evolution’s most ingenious inventions; a built-in tool sensitive to texture, contour and temperature: an alchemical lever; the secret key to technology; the link between the mind and art; a humanizing device. The marmoset and the lemur are thumbless; none of the New World monkeys has opposable thumbs; the spider monkey’s thumbs are absent or reduced to a tiny tubercle; the thumbs of the potto are set at an angle of one hundred eighty degrees to the other digits, making them nonfunctional except as pinchers; the orangutan, which is humanlike to the extent that it is called the ‘man of the woods,’ has a thumb so tiny in relation to its extremely long curved fingers that its manipulation is only nominal; the thumb of the chimpanzee opposes the bent fingers in a clumsy action, and the gorilla lacks a grip precise enough to hold small objects; the baboon comes close—its thumbs are fully opposable and it has a good precision grip—but have you ever observed the thumb of the baboon, how flat and splay- headed and crudely shaped it is; no, there is but one true thumb on this planet and homo sapiens has got it.”
Pause.
“And so you are demanding at last the privileges of thumb that nature has perversely denied you?”
“I just want to be normal,” said Sissy. “Give me that old-fashioned normality. It was good enough for Crazy Horse and it’s good enough for me.”
338
tomrobbins
“Ah yes,” said Dr. Dreyfus, smiling weakly, like a duck in dishwater, too embarrassed to quack. “Very well, my dear. Here is what we can do.

“Full normality, whatever that may exactly be, is out of the question. But out of the question comes the answer, so to speak. If your thumb bone—actually, two phalanx metacarpal bones—if your thumb bones were of normal size, then we could merely cut away the excess tissue and sew your thumb inside of your chest for a while, for a skin graft, you see. Then you’d have thumbs that were normal in appearance as well as in function. However, as I recall, your thumb bones are enlarged in proportion to the whole. That makes it more complicated. That calls for pollicerization. One thing a surgeon cannot do is reduce volume of bone. Bone can be shortened but not reduced in size. So. In pollicerization, we make a thumb out of your index finger. We shorten the bone of the index finger, alter its angle and move it over. After a time, it becomes a completely acceptable thumb. But your hands, you realize, would still not be quite normal, because they’d have only four digits a piece. Your present thumbs—there certainly is a peculiar glow about them—
would, of course, have to be amputated.”
What??? Feel faint. Ooooo, dizzy. Sick to the tummy.
A startle of fishes in the seas of the abdomen. A thick black toxin spews from the heart to numb the teeth. Sissy suffers shortness of breath. The author’s own fingers tremble on the keys. Amputation. A leaden word. A word with a built-in echo and a built-in ache. A word off Dr.
Guillotine’s workbench. A lump in God’s gravy. Can thumbs understand the word “amputate” the way whooping cranes understand the word “extinct”?
Felix Dreyfus offered the shaken Sissy a glass of sherry.
She declined. Probably not a dram of Ripple in the whole West End. In lieu of alcoholic stimulant, then, the good doctor administered the tonic of conspiracy.
“This will be a risky escapade,” he confided, “but I’m old now and can afford to take risks. I’ll not run from e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 339
Nazis ever again. My brother-in-law is a surgeon. Ha!
Some surgeon. He couldn’t cut the pimento out of a stuffed olive. He ought to have a red and white striped pole outside of his office. He’s employed by the Veterans’

Administration. Only the government would hire such a boob. Well, as our luck would have it, he’s in residence at O’Dwyre VA Hospital over in South Richmond. I’ll have him schedule you for surgery. He owes me thousands; he’ll do what I say. Then I’ll show up to ‘assist’ with the operations. I’ll use an assumed name. Nobody at O’Dwyre will be the wiser. They’re understaffed, outmoded, in-competent and corrupt. The follow-up work I can do here at home. Faintly ingenious, yes? Against all rules, but as the painter Delacroix said, ‘There are no rules for great souls: rules are only for people who have merely the talent that can be acquired.’ But I don’t suppose that means much to you.”

92.
once, a young woman was admitted to a hospital, and no birds sang.
Once, blood was analyzed in a laboratory, and no birds sang.
Once, powerful lamps were turned on in an operating room, and no birds sang.
Once, IV tubes were inserted in veins, and no birds sang.
Once, a young woman was wheeled into surgery, and no birds sang.
Once, an anesthesiologist stuck a needle into a curved and creamy ass, and no birds sang.
Once, an anesthesiologist stuck needles into a long, graceful neck, and no birds sang.
340
tomrobbins
Once, a nurse scrubbed an arm for ten full minutes, and no birds sang.
Once, a body and a table were draped with sheets to create a sterile field, and no birds sang.
Once, a tourniquet was placed on a slender right arm, and no birds sang.
Once, an elastic rubber bandage was applied so tightly it squeezed most of the blood out of an arm, and no birds sang.
Once, a tourniquet was inflated, and not a single ornithological peep was heard.
Once, a surgeon outlined in iodine an incision around the base of a thumb, and still no birds were singing.

Once, pale smooth skin was incised along a premarked line and dissected down to the bone, while silence prevailed in treetop and nest.
Once, arteries and veins were divided and tied, and a nerve was separated and allowed to detract into a wound, without an accompanying warble or whistle or tweet.
Once, a joint was opened, and it wasn’t a new road-house nor were any of our fine feathered friends chirping there.
Once, a tendons were cut, snapped and allowed to re-tract like rubber bands, a sound that could not have been mistaken for a meadowlark or a thrush.
Once, a metacarpal bone was fractured with a saw, a task that, due to the unusual size of the particular bone, required such exertion on the part of the surgeon that he could not have heard any birds if they were singing, which they weren’t.
Once, a drain was placed in a wound, and not so much as a sparrow opened its mouth.
Once, a woman flesh was sewn shut with four-ought nylon suture, and the beaks of the birds must have been sewn shut, too.
Once, a pressure dressing was applied to a hand, but no amount of pressure could induce the birds to sing.
Once, a tourniquet was deflated, a bloody arm bathed, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 341
and a numb young woman rolled to a recovery room, four fingers showing from a bandage and not one of them pointing to the silent skies.
Once, a nurse and two surgeons, their attention directed by an intensifying pinkish glow, turned to stare into a metal pan, where a huge human thumb, disarticulated from the hand it had served (in its fashion), was now flopping about like a trout—no! not flopping aimlessly in breathless panic but, rather, arching and thrusting itself in a calculated and endlessly repeated gesture, the international gesture of the hitchhike, as if, to avoid troubling the world with its great white grief, it was trying to flag a ride On Out of Here.

And no birds sang.

93.
the sky was as tattered as a Gypsy’s pajamas. Through knife holes in the flannel overcast, July sunlight spilled, causing Sissy’s eyes to blink when she stepped outside the long, dark corridors of O’Dwyre VA Hospital. The air was so humid, she felt orchids growing in her armpits.
Masquerading as the pensioned widow of a Vietnam hero, Sissy had been in the hospital for three full days. On this, the fourth morning, the drain had been removed from her wound, a fresh dressing applied and a discharge granted.
On this morning, also, Dr. Dreyfus had learned that Sissy had spent the fortnight prior to her surgery sleeping on the warped linoleum of a condemned house, the rat-slobbered old Hankshaw residence in South Richmond.
Now he was driving her to his own house, where his wife (who turned out to be the short gray woman from the office) was preparing a room for her. She was invited to stay 342
tomrobbins
with the Dreyfus family until the work on her hands was completed. Because of the magnitude of the wound left by amputating such large digits, Dr. Dreyfus had decided that four operations would be necessary. The first, just done, would remove her right thumb. The second would remove the left. The object of the third would be the pollicerization of the right index finger; the fourth, the left.
They would allow six weeks between each operation.
One doesn’t get to be normal overnight.
Mrs. Dreyfus didn’t approve of her husband’s illegal ministrations to Sissy, but, like many native Richmonders, she was gracious to the point of agony. Margaret Dreyfus did her bust-a-gut best to make the convalescent feel at home. Meals were regular, cheerful and good. With air conditioning, showers and pitchers of limeade, Sissy’s armpits were defoliated, fruit bats discouraged from hanging from her sex hairs. In the evenings, a portable TV

was rolled onto the screened-in veranda, the programming left to Sissy’s wishes. During late-night thunderstorms, discreet inquiries were made as to whether the guest was nervous. The latest magazines appeared on her bedside table.
If Sissy didn’t feel completely at home, it was because Sissy wasn’t completely at home; she wasn’t completely anywhere, she wasn’t complete. Part of her—oh such a part!—was literally missing. Even though it felt as if it were still there, it was gone, gone, gone; gone to her questioning eyes, gone to her fumbling touch, gone from all dimensions except the inexplicable dimension of bioen-ergy, where its heavy aura pulsated and practiced phantom poses just in case some psychic researcher should start taking Kirlian photographs with a wide-angle lens.
Sissy was determined to feel no remorse, but shock showed on her eyeballs like a marmalade glaze.
“Lord!” exclaimed Margaret Dreyfus. “She acts like that big ol’ thumb had been her child.”
“No,” corrected her husband. “She acts as if she had been the thumb’s child.”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 343
Two weeks after the operation, on the day the stitches were removed, Sissy
phoned Marie Barth in Manhattan.
She learned that the Countess had survived, although some spots seemed to be missing from his dice. There was a warrant for Sissy’s arrest outstanding, but as long as she kept away from New York State, she was safe: The crime was not serious enough for extradition; in fact, in the High Renaissance of crime that New York was now enjoying, Sissy’s little assault was considered no more important than, say, the after-hours doodles of one of Botticelli’s apprentices. By Marie, Sissy sent word to Julian that she was well and that she would be coming back to him some day, but first she had some changes to go through.
After the call, Sissy felt a bit more perky. Several times she accompanied Margaret Dreyfus on shopping expedi-tions—to Richmond Kosher Meat Market on West Cary Street and to Weiman’s Bakery on North Seventeenth.

With Dr. and Mrs. Dreyfus and their son, Max, a law student at Washington and Lee University, she attended movies at the Colonial Theater and the Byrd. There had been few visitors to the Dreyfus home since the Bernie Schwartz scandal, and Sissy found the patio private enough for nude sunbathing. Once, she walked as far as Byrd Park, the weight of orchids and bats dragging her down, and fed the ducks. She returned home saturated, panting, her ears resonant with blessed duck music, and beat Dr. Dreyfus at chess. That night she seemed vaguely joyous.
For the most part, however, Sissy had joined the ranks of the Unhappy Waiters and Killers of Time. Oh God, there are so many of them in our land! Students who can’t be happy until they’ve graduated, servicemen who can’t be happy until they’re discharged, single folks who can’t be happy until they’re married, workers who can’t be happy until they’re retired, adolescents who can’t be happy until they’re grown, ill people who can’t be happy until they’re well, failures who can’t be happy until they succeed, rest-344
tomrobbins
less who can’t be happy until they get out of town; and, in most cases, vice versa, people waiting, waiting for the world to begin. Sissy knew better than to fall into that dumb trap—certainly the Chink had taught her enough about time so that she needn’t ever mark it—but there she was, playing the zombie game, running in place, postpon-ing life until normality was achieved—while simultaneously she mourned the decrease in personal magic that had occurred with the loss of that famous Airstream Trailer of digits, the thumb that had launched a thousand trips.
But one afternoon, some twenty days into July, word was flashed into the Dreyfus home, as it was flashed (im-partially and regardless of whether the homeowner had ever turned a nice Jewish boy’s nose into a six-sided museum piece) into the homes of all Americans, that . . . the whooping cranes . . . had been found. And Sissy was jos-tled awake, alive.

94.
sissy one thumb watched network news early and late, and Lone Thumb Gitche laid her ear to the breast of the radio, and Little Miss Nine Fingers was first person up mornings to retrieve the Times-Dispatch from the delivery boy’s pitch. Scarcely anybody followed the whooping crane “story” more closely than Semi- Thumbelina, the single-minded seraph grounded in Richmond’s West End.
As news, whooper developments were overshadowed by events in Washington, D.C., where the President was having a little hand trouble of his own. Which is to say, the President had been caught red-handed, hands redder than a travel poster sunset, pimp red, a red that could en-rage bulls and stop locomotives, but not blood red, for e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 345
blood is sacred and the red that ran off the President’s hands was the red of lies and deals and greed and arrogant megalomania. The President’s hands had been seen, coast to coast, in the till up to the elbows, and the public—
hopelessly brainwashed about the true significance of movements—was more enthralled with the frantic scramblings of the President’s crimson hands, wringing and jerking and shaking off bribery, diving for a safe pocket, trying to force their way into a distinguished pair of gloves, than it was by the graceful glidings of new-found whooping cranes over the hills of Dakota.
By no means did the media ignore the whopper saga, however; it was the number two news story in the land, rating for a while more time and space than the international situation, which was desperate, as usual. Thus did Our Lady of the Missing Digit, though she had to saw through cords of political punk to get at heartwood, stack the following facts:
The Countess had had nothing to do with it; his brain—and brains have their weaknesses, as we all know—had been involuntarily tuned to another frequency, perhaps to that channel that broadcasts to mon-goloids, sleeping beauties and house cats. Nor, to the Interior Secretary’s displeasure, had the government search plane located the cranes, although it had passed within an aeronautical whisker of them on several occasions. No, the Walt Disney Studios cinematographers had simply emerged one day from the Florida swamps, where

they had been filming Lunch Time in the Everglades, learned of the whooper disappearance and sent word to the authorities: “Hey, why don’t you have a look at little Siwash Lake in the Dakota hills; the cranes stop off there, and there’re goings on around that place that you wouldn’t believe.”
Very next day, two area representatives of the Fish and Wildlife Service attempted to check out the lake. They drove to the gates of a ranch, where they were turned back by a teen-aged girl with a rifle.
346
tomrobbins
The following morning, the Fish and Wildlife agents were flown over Siwash Lake in a U.S. Forestry Service helicopter. Before shots from a band of young women on horseback drove them away, they observed more whooping cranes than any humans had ever seen all in one place (that is, any humans except those crazy girls, and who in Jesus Jumping Hell were they, anyhow?) That afternoon, the two representatives of the Fish and Wildlife Service returned to the ranch. With them were two Forest Service rangers, a state game warden, the county sheriff, four deputy sheriffs, Mottburg’s town marshall, several of his deputies, the editor of the Mottburg Gazette (who doubled as regional stringer for the Associated Press), a couple of bird watchers and a run-of-the-mill thrill-seeker or two. This party was met at the gate by at least fifteen armed females, mostly between the ages of seventeen and twenty-one, in jeans, skimpy tops and Western-style hats and boots. One of the young women, described as extremely attractive, identified herself as Bonanza Jellybean, ranch boss, and told the authorities, “Yep, the birds are here all right. They’re in fine shape, and as you musta saw from your f—— whirly machine, unrestrained, free to go as they please. But this is private property and you aren’t laying a foot on it, none of you.” The cops tried to bluff the cowgirls—for cowgirls were what they were— but it didn’t work. “We’ll be back with a court order and a fistful of search warrants,”
warned the sheriff. To which Ms. Bonanza Jellybean replied, “Just come back with a couple of people who know what they’re doing and we’ll let ’em on for a nice close look at the birds.” Another young woman, carrying a whip and

dressed entirely in black, added, “And make sure those two people are female.” Ms. Jellybean amended that demand. “Make sure at least one of them is female,”
she said. “And you’d better do as we say or they may be trouble.” The lawmen told the Wildlife agents they’d get them to the lake then and there if they wanted, but the senior federal representative, as level-headed as a chopping e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 347
block, replied that force could endanger lives, crane as well as human, and he was sure the problem could be safely solved on the morrow. “Let’s get to a phone,” he said to his associate, and as if some Mottburg telephone booth was the last coffee break left in the universe, off all of them rushed.
When the rosy fingers of dawn next strummed the string of the horizon, there was gathered at the Rubber Rose gate the entire party from the previous afternoon, plus nine additional thrill-seekers, eight television journalists, seven newspaper reporters, six officials from the nation’s capital, five more deputies, four Audubon Society members, three FBI agents, two well-paid consultants and a CIA man in a pear tree.
The cowgirls had gained in numbers, too; the wide-eyed editor of the Mottburg Gazette counted nearly twice as many as the day before. They were sipping cocoa, brushing one another’s hair and rubbing the sleep out of their eyes. Bonanza Jellybean, in a leather skirt so short her crotch thought she hadn’t dressed yet, advanced to negotiate with an Assistant Undersecretary of the Interior. She spun a six-gun on her tiny fingers as she talked.
Eventually, it was agreed that two observers would be permitted on the ranch. They were to be the man perhaps most familiar with whooper life, the director of the Aransas, Texas, Wildlife Refuge; and the extremely nervous Inge Anne Nelsen, a professor of zoology at North Dakota State University. Professor Nelsen wanted a cowgirl to remain outside the gates in temporary custody, as insurance against the possibility of the professor herself being held hostage. The request infuriated the Rubber Rose forewoman, the darkly dressed Delores (spell it with an “e”) del Ruby. Snapped Ms. del Ruby, “One reason we wanted a woman for this job was so we wouldn’t have to put up with that kind of male mentality paranoia provocative bull———.” And Ms. Jellybean scolded the zoologist, “Don’t be a traitor to your womb.” At that point, a cowgirl known as Elaine scampered over the gate, 348

tomrobbins
volunteering to stay with the authorities. Elaine delighted the cameramen and infuriated the cops by proceeding to hug the Assistant Undersecretary flirtatiously about the neck.
The zoology professor and the Aransas director were given horses, and escorted by a half-dozen mounted cowgirls to the lake. After about two hours, a period during which the journalists unsuccessfully pumped Elaine for information and the lawmen ogled, with that mixture of desire and disgust peculiar to men reared in a Puritanical environment, the cowgirls guarding the gate, the Siwash expedition returned. The government’s delegates reported in private to the Assistant Interior Undersecretary (whom Elaine persisted in calling the Inferior Undersexed Assistant), and he, in turn, issued an informal statement to his subordinates and the press.
“It will be my extreme pleasure to report to the President, who has been gravely concerned about the fate of our whooping cranes [hee ha hee, snigger snigger] and to the Interior Secretary and to the American people that the entire flock of cranes is, indeed, at Siwash Lake, and in apparently healthy condition. The cranes have built brooding nests around the whole circumference of the small lake, and have hatched chicks there. Counting the young birds, there are now approximately sixty cranes in the flock.” (Loud cheers from the Audubon section and the free-lance bird watchers.) “While this is good news, it is also quite bewildering. Whooping cranes are territorially minded, militantly so. They have never been known to nest as close as a mile to one another, yet here they are virtually side by side. Furthermore, as long as man has been acquainted with this flock it has nested nowhere but in the wilderness of northern Canada. Why did this year it cut its migration short by over a thousand miles and choose to brood cramped up at this little lake, so close to human beings, when whooping cranes are notoriously shy of humans? Those are perplexing questions, which our best experts will attempt to answer in the near future.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 349
For now perhaps, it is good news enough to learn that our cranes are alive and [a furtive glance at the cowgirls] apparently safe.”

On the morning after that one—and days do seem to follow days, don’t they, students of time?—as the Assistant Undersecretary and his party pushed its way through the throng that milled outside the Rubber Rose, past writers, photographers, ranchers, loafers, mothers nursing babies, rural punks with T- shirt sleeves rolled up to show off the sum total of their personalities, Indians, tourists, bird-lovers, old men chewing tobacco, runaway daughters wishing to join the cowgirls and, of course, shootout enthusiasts from almost every branch of law enforcement; as the Assistant Undersecretary moved through this faintly festive mob, he was in a conciliatory mood. For one thing, his boss, the Secretary, had advised him to be conciliatory. For another, on the previous evening—and days do seem to antecede days—at the Elk Horn Motor Lodge, the Assistant Undersecretary had sounded out the citizens of Mottburg. He had heard that the cowgirls were tramps, lesbians, witches, dope fiends, that they fornicated with farm animals, subsisted on gook rice and flew funny kites. Yet the natives believed that these same cowgirls, trash as they were, had every right to keep “the government” off their land: prairie folk are decidedly opposed to federal interference. The Assistant Undersecretary paid the heed to local opinion that sailors pissing off bowsprits pay to the wind.
Thus was compromise born. Bonanza Jellybean agreed that Professor Nelsen and the whooper warden from Aransas could visit Siwash Lake twice each week to monitor the cranes. In return, the Assistant Undersecretary would see to it that low-flying aircraft were not allowed over the Rubber Rose. Moreover, he would seek the cooperation of surrounding landowners and the sheriff’s department in keeping crowds of the curious away.
(Before the ban on aircraft was enforced, however, each major network filmed aerial footage of Siwash Lake and 350
tomrobbins
the cranes thereon. The sight of that pert pond, ringed round with cattail, reed and arrowhead, reflecting sweetly plump hills as a Tantric’s eye might reflect his goddess’s boobs, caused Sissy to squirm before the TV screen, as if being boiled by her own deep fires.) Publicly, at least, the government was taking this position: the cowgirls seem to be innocent of any overt wrongdoing so far as the whoopers are concerned. The women admit to feeding the birds, but without apparent intention of interfering with their natural habits. Certainly they haven’t tried to exploit the cranes in any way.

The fact that they withheld information on the whoopers’
whereabouts, and the fact that they fired upon federal agents, is suspicious, and in the latter case might result in charges’ being filed, but for the time being, in light of the birds’ multiplication and the fact that certain compromises have been reached, the ladies of the Rubber Rose would be extended courtesies and benefits of doubt.
Things went well enough for a week. Then Professor Inge Anne Nelsen requested permission—reluctantly, she professed—to kill a crane. Said she, “The birds’ behavior is so atypical, their psychology altered so drastically and, I might add, suddenly, that I can only hypothesize that they are being drugged— unintentionally or otherwise.
Ms. Jellybean has refused to allow us to inspect the feed with which they supplement the cranes’ natural diet.
Therefore, the only recourse is to perform an autopsy on a dead bird.”
“Kill a bird that is on the verge of extinction?” asked the Assistant Undersecretary, and moaned. His ulcer came out of the closet. “Why, we’d be lynched on the steps of the Museum of Natural History.” The noose was tightening around his ulcer already. Any last words, ulcer? Yes. Wahwahwahwahwah! it screamed.
“Consider this,” countered Professor Nelsen. “The cranes didn’t migrate to Canada for the summer. Suppose they don’t migrate to Texas for the winter? You do know, don’t you, Mr. Assistant Undersecretary, what winters are e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 351
like in this neck of the woods? The flock wouldn’t last until Christmas. Better one dead bird than sixty. Sixty is all there is.”
“Permission granted.”
When the professor attempted to carry out the deed, however, she was accosted by cowgirls. They called her a disgrace to the nurturing traditions of womankind. They threatened to paint a mustache on her and shoot off her nipples.
At this point, the government decided to apply a pound of pressure. What the

hell, the President was on the verge of leaving the White House via the fire escape; what else could go wrong? The FBI uncovered that the cowgirls didn’t have title to the Rubber Rose. They sought out the rightful owner so as to persuade him to evict the young women and/or grant the government unrestricted trespass, but that person proved to be a cosmetics tycoon who had recently suffered severe head injuries and now spent his hours making eyes at the figures on wallpaper while listening to distant winds whistling down the necks of ethereal Ripple bottles.
The authorities had better luck with their next ploy. It was discovered that the Rubber Rose was operating as an unlicensed dairy, selling quantities of goat milk to a Fargo cheese factory. One day, the very day the President ducked out the back door with socks and stocks exploding from his suitcase, an inspector from the county health department paid a visit to the ranch, noted sixteen violations and shut down the dairy operation. Ouch! Deprived of their sole source of income, the cowgirls, indeed, were pressed.
All this Sissy learned from the media, and if the media did not inform her whether or not Delores had had her third peyote vision, or whether Elaine’s urinary troubles had cleared up or whether Debbie had yet reached, via one path or another, the peace that passeth all understanding, still it was a tall measure, and she carried it in her head when she was readmitted to O’Dwyre for her second amputation.
352
tomrobbins

95.
stop, sissy! Stop, you can’t do it. It’s unfair and irresponsible. We appreciate your motives; we realize that your intentions are good; we can even detect a certain bravery behind your intransigence, an ennobling sense of sacrifice there; and God knows we are sensitive to the suffering that has sometimes broken loose to come billowing forth from your appendages like the pungent vapors of whales—often it appears that in this life of experience and accommodation we pay just as dearly for our triumphs as we do for our defeats. But Sissy . . . hold on!
To the extent that this world surrenders its richness and diversity, it surrenders its poetry. To the extent that it relinquishes its capacity to surprise, it relinquishes its magic. To the extent that it loses its ability to tolerate ridiculous and even dangerous exceptions, it loses its grace.
As its options (no matter how absurd or unlikely) diminish, so do its chances for the future.
Sissy, the world needs those unflattering digits of yours, those dazed balloon snakes, those ruddy zucchini, those exclamation points that end with such force the understated sentences of your arms; needs your thumbs—
one gone already!—the way it needs the rhino, the snow leopard, the panda, the wolf and, yes, the whooping crane; the way it needs headhunters and “wild” Indians and real Gypsies in horsedrawn carts; the way it needs some land without access by road or air, land with jumbo forests left on it forever and oil left in the ground to fulfill without interference its fossil destiny; the way it needs drunks and lunatics and old people with filthy habits; the way it needs the mirrors, hallucinations and metamorphoses of art.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 353
Whether you need the solace of normality more than you need your unique powers is a personal matter, which only you may decide. But Sissy, don’t let

people such as Julian Gitche influence your decision. Julian needs your thumbs, huge and murmuring like the mouths of unex-plored rivers—just the way nature made them—even if he isn’t wise enough to understand that he needs them.
Never in history have there been thumbs to match yours, neither in size nor in deed. Answer this: what can replace them? Okay, yes, there are the children prophesied by Madame Zoe, but that’s a gamble, like Heaven, the Eternity of Joy and the steady-state economy. Sissy, the mastodons are all gone; so are the Amazons. Timbuktu is now a roadside zoo and nobody ever found El Dorado.
Remember how the Chink venerated those biggies?
Wouldn’t it benefit others of us to do the same? Your thumbs were not metaphors or symbols; they were real.
The one that remains, it still sings of the terror and ecstasy of flesh. Your thumb disorientates us, Sissy, and for the person courageous enough to see it out, disorientation always leads to.
love.
Don’t deprive us of an opportunity to love unselfishly that which, like Christ when he was alive, is difficult to love. Don’t spoil our fun.

96.
dinner was good that night and Dr. Robbins was again amazed by the purple cabbage, its color making him wonder where all the blue food is.
As he was indulging a genteel burp, the telephone rang.
“I’ll get it,” he said, which was odd for he had dined alone. Perhaps he was talking to his mustache.
354
tomrobbins
The caller was Sissy Hankshaw Gitche. Her call was two months late. “I’m sorry I stood you up.”
“Oh, that’s all right,” Dr. Robbins replied. “I’m cute when I’m mad.”
Sissy was phoning from O’Dwyre VA Hospital. Her second surgery was scheduled very early the next morning, so Dr. Dreyfus had had her admitted overnight so that she might get a good night’s sleep. People still used that phrase, “a good night’s sleep.” It was probably a quite old expression, although it seemed to suggest the Eisenhower Years. Before the sixties woke us up.
Cries for help are frequently inaudible. Even when drowning, some people are too shy or embarrassed to yell. There was something Sissy needed to talk about with Dr. Robbins, but she couldn’t get it out. So, instead of poking his eardrum with an icicle word such as amputa-tion, she found herself asking, “Well, Doctor, what do you think about the whooping cranes?”
“Oh, I’m pro-whooper,” said he. “They go well with my blue sky.”
“No, what I mean is, how do you account for their tenacity? Why are they holding on like this? I mean, they’re out of place in the modern civilized world;

if they’re going to refuse to attempt to adapt to changed conditions, wouldn’t it make more sense just to go ahead and go extinct and avoid the hassles and suffering? What are they trying to prove?”
“Maybe,” said Dr. Robbins very slowly, “maybe they’re waiting for us to go away.”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 355

97.
when the surgeons, their blades grinning like pira-nha in their cases, dropped in for a preliminary examina-tion next morning, Sissy surprised them. “Just go ahead and polli . . . polli . . . polli wanta cracker my right index finger,” said she. “I think I’m going to live with my left thumb for a while.”
The brother-in-law was vexed, but Dr. Dreyfus understood: “As the sculptor Alexander Calder answered when asked if he’d be willing to make a mobile for the Guggen-heim Museum out of solid gold, ‘Sure, why not? And then I’ll paint it black.’ But I don’t suppose that means very much to you.”
Shortening the finger bone, moving it over, increasing its angle, was tedious precision work, requiring intense concentration, yet throughout the pollicerization the surgeons were aware of the singing of birds.
After the operation, an incision was made in the patient’s abdomen and her new quasi-thumb sewn into it to begin the grafting process. The next day, when Dr. Dreyfus entered her hospital room, he found Sissy standing before a full-length mirror in only bikini panties, having a thorough look at herself.
“Well, what do you think?” asked the plastic surgeon, artist and three-million- dollar defendant.
“Criminey,” said Sissy. “Looks like I was in such a hurry to masturbate I missed the hole by a foot.”
356
tomrobbins

98.
let’s end this gossip at once and for all: Richmond, Virginia, is not in love with England, no baby is expected, no wedding in sight. For its part, the interna- tionally renowned England scarcely is aware of Richmond, Virginia’s existence, and furthermore, has a Richmond of it’s own living under its roof in North Surrey. As for prosperous, conservative, up-and-coming Richmond, Virginia, what it feels for England—many years its senior—is not romantic passion but envy. It admires England’s centuries of respectability and wishes they were its own. It longs to wear England’s knickers, not get in them.
Remember, you read it here first.
One way in which Richmond demonstrates its admiration and envy is through imitation (Don’t we all?). For example, Richmond has reproduced tons of English architecture and left it out in the weather, permitting it to be occupied by persons whose accents would drive a proper Englishman to stuff his ears with hasty pudding. In the West End, the most popular house style is the enlarged version of the traditional English cottage, with old beams and storybook roofs, but usually luxurized by such non-Anglo features as swimming pools, patios and porches en-closed with thermal glass.
It was in just such a posh cottage that Sissy waited for her new thumb to come out of the oven.
Meanwhile, she took refreshed delight in the old thumb, the monstrous left one, the one that broke the bank at Monte Weirdo. Sissy oiled it and perfumed it, sunned it and fanned it, flexed it and rotated it, made awful ovoid shadows with it on ceilings and walls, aimed it at stars and planets, let it splash in the tub, rolled it over her e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 357
erogenous zones, flashed it at imaginary speeders on the Highways of the Heart and talked over old times with it.
It was like a second honeymoon. The only occasion when the reconciliated appendage failed to thrill and cheer her was when she thought of it smacking skulls. Then she would shudder like the sanitation man who had to collect the

garbage at Frankenstein’s castle.
Mostly, though, Sissy carried the left thumb around grandly, a sight that befuddled Margaret Dreyfus, caused Felix Dreyfus to smile. Their reactions mattered little, however, because when Sissy wasn’t absorbed with her thumbs— little new one baking, big old one basking—she was equally absorbed with following the whooping crane story in the news.

99.
one prairie night when the sky looked like a bowl of cream of moon soup, stirred by the long ladle of the wind, the vehicle known to the cowgirls as “the peyote wagon” and to the press as “the reptile-decorated camper” pulled out of the Rubber Rose and didn’t return.
Delores del Ruby was at the wheel. The media speculated that the departure of the “black-garbed, whip-cracking second-in-command” was significant, perhaps an indication that there was dissension at the “mystery ranch.”
For the next few days, reporters watched for signs of disharmony, but as far as they could tell through their binoculars, and in occasional conversations with taciturn guards at the gate, solidarity prevailed. Indeed, the pardners were attempting to enjoy cowgirl life just as if the National Eye never interrupted its scrutiny of the new President in order to blink at them. To the director of the Aransas Wildlife Refuge, who observed them riding, rop-358
tomrobbins
ing, skinnydipping and flying Tibetan tantra kites, they had “every appearance of young girls on a lark.”
In their bunkhouse meetings, however, a certain sobri-ety overtook their giggles, and as they cleaned firearms and analyzed their situation, no one would have mistaken them for Girl Scouts. Vivid and vulgar curses left their lips, directed at the elements that parched their vegetable garden one week, flooded it the next.
“The prairie gods were never friendly to agriculture,”
Debbie reminded her companions. “They were more into buffalo.”
Big Red wasn’t placated. “We don’t have beans or buffalo,” she complained.
“The goats are our buffalo,” said Debbie. “As long as we got them we got milk, yogurt and cheese.”
“We got milk, yogurt and cheese,” agreed Jellybean,

“but we aren’t gonna have any Crosby, Stills and Nash—
not when the power company cuts our electricity off, we aren’t. So those of you that favor the stereo over my old Gibson, why don’t you volunteer to work on the windmill this afternoon, even if this is a Sunday?”
“I must observe the Sabbath and keep it holy,” objected Mary.
“Okay, Mary,” said Jelly, “you can spend the afternoon praying for those podners who are out working their butts off. By the way, Billy West is giving us the windmill materials free of charge, bless his heart, bless all three hundred pounds of him; he told me this morning that he isn’t gonna charge us. So what you say we get in high gear and get that baby built. Any questions?”
“Yes,” said Heather, “What if every podner on the ranch wore one of those beanies with the little plastic propeller on top? The way the wind blows around here, would that generate enough extra electricity so’s I could send away for a vibrator?”
“Vibrators run on batteries, honey,” said Jelly, feeling guilty, perhaps, about her weekly yam sessions with the Chink. “Meeting adjourned.”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 359
A crew of cowgirls set out to build the windmill, singing as they worked. The official observers of the ranch found nothing alarming in that construction. But a short time later, the girls undertook some further building, the implications of which were to bring things squawling to a head at the Rubber Rose.
Oh yeah . . . Sissy, back there in Virginia listening to the news, Sissy guessed correctly where Delores had gone.
The forewoman was off to New Mexico on a peyote run.

100.
well, here we are at Chapter 100. This calls for a little celebration. I am an author and therefore in the same business God is in: if I say this page is a bottle of champagne, it is a bottle of champagne. Reader, will you share a cup of the bubbly with me? You prefer French to domestic? Okay, I’ll make it French. Cheers!
Here’s to the one hundredth chapter! Hundred. A car-dinal number, ten times ten, the position of the third digit to the left of the decimal point, a power number signify-ing weight, wealth and importance. The symbol for hundred is C, which is also the symbol for the speed of light.
There are a hundred pennies in a dollar, a hundred cen-timeters in a meter, a hundred years in a century, a hundred yards on a football field, a hundred points in a carat, a hundred ways to skin a cat and a hundred ways of cooking eggplant. There also are a hundred ways to successfully write a novel, but this is probably not one of them.
Don’t be so quick to agree. Even Cowgirls Get the Blues can still teach you a thing or two. “For example?”
you ask snottily, while helping yourself to my champagne. For example, this: on a number of occasions this book has made reference to magic, and each time you’ve 360
tomrobbins
shaken your head, muttering such criticisms as “What does he mean by ‘magic,’ anyhow? It’s embarrassing to find a grown man talking about magic in such a manner.
How can anybody take him seriously?” Or, as slightly more gracious readers have objected, “Doesn’t the author realize that one can’t write about magic? One can create it but not discuss it. It’s much too gossamer for that. Magic can be neither described nor defined. Using words to describe magic is like using a screwdriver to slice roast beef.”

To which the author now replies, Sorry, freeloaders, you’re clever but you’re not quite correct. Magic isn’t the fuzzy, fragile, abstract and ephemeral quality you think it is. In fact, magic is distinguished from mysticism by its very concreteness and practicality. Whereas mysticism is manifest only in spiritual essence, in the transcendental state, magic demands a steady naturalistic base. Mysticism reveals the ethereal in the tangible. Magic makes something permanent out of the transitory, coaxes drama from the colloquial.
All right, I’ll try to expound, if you insist. And just to prove I’m no sorehead, I’ll conjure up another magnum of Dom Perignon. Here. Say when. Mysticism is self-contained and beyond external control. Something either has a mystic emanation or it doesn’t. It is present in a single entity, animate or inanimate, where it is known to those who have faith that it is there. Mysticism implies belief in forces, influences and actions, which, though imperceptible to ordinary sense, are nevertheless real.
Magic, on the other hand, can be controlled—by a magician. A magician is a transmitter just as a mystic is rather strictly a receiver. Just as love can be made, using materials no more ethereal than an erect penis, a moist vagina and a warm heart, so, too, can magic be made, wholly and willfully, from the most obvious and mundane. Magic does not seep from within of its own volition (or appear unannounced to someone in a state of heightened awareness); it is a matter of cause and effect. The seemingly un-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 361
realistic or supernatural (“magic”) act occurs through the acting of one thing upon another through a secret link.
The key word here is secret. When the substance of the link is revealed, the magic fades or can be counteracted by rival magicians. Thus, Even Cowgirls Get the Blues may call your attention to some magic that results from, say, the acting of the smells of the female body upon the last surviving flock of wild whooping cranes, but it may never give away the secret link between them.
Hmm. The author can sense that Chaper 100 displeases you. Not only does it interrupt the story, it says too much and says it too didactically. Well, a book about a woman with sugar-sack thumbs is bound to be a bit heavy-handed.
Come on, now, that’s enough champagne. Either give me a kiss or get out of here.

101.
expressions such as “chord factors,” “frequency patterns,” “strut lengths” and “A.B.S. plastic joints” began to be heard on the shores of Siwash Lake, where heretofore only the radio signals of froggies, ex-cerpts from Chinese Crane Opera and an occasional girlish “yahoo” or “yippee” had been heard. In addition, there now were the chewing noises of hungry saws and the spock-spock of hammers taking the direct approach in trying to teach some impressionable young nails about the dangers inherent in a permissive society, spock-spock- spock.
On their next regular visit to the lake, Professor Inge Anne Nelsen and the Aransas Wildlife Refuge director were stunned by all this activity taking place practically in the midst of the whooping cranes. They made immediate inquiries.
362
tomrobbins
“We’re building a dome,” answered Bonanza Jellybean. “A dome?”
“Not just any old dome. A four-frequency, hemi-spheric, geodesic, arctic dome, triple-glazed against the cold. Of course, the very shape of a dome is a defense against cold. A mean mad icesnake of a wind will tend to glide over its rounded surface instead of picking up velocity in an exterior corner where on a rectilinear building it would be tempted to wiggle its way inside. The Eskimos knew that. There’s also less surface area through which heat can be lost . . .”
“Aw, hell, Jelly, that ain’t important,” interjected Big Red. “Most of your heat loss takes place through doors and windows, anyways. Since we’re only gonna have one good-sized door and a couple of little bitty windows, that won’t worry us a whole hell of a heap. But we’re triple-glazing the bastard, like Jelly said. It’s gonna be a real arctic-type dome.”

“Just like Santa Claus lives in, right, Red?” said Kym. “Haw haw,” Big Red laughed.
A foundation of 2 × 8 joists atop eight-foot beams had already been laid, and from its circumference the government observers could ascertain that the dome was going to be quite large. They were incredulous. “What is it for?”
asked the man from Aransas. “Why are you building it so close to the lake?” asked Professor Nelsen.
“For the cranes,” Jelly informed them.
“For the cranes??!” Their incredulousness became triple-glazed.
“Sure. It’s almost the end of August, you know. Come winter, these birds are gonna need some shelter. On clear, calm days we’ll break the ice for them and they can fart around in the lake. But when the blizzards and the big winds hit, they’ll need shelter. This dome is gonna be their winter quarters.”
“Impossible,” gasped the Aransas warden. “They’ll never bunch up in there, so close together, with a roof over their heads.” As he looked around at the birds, howe v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 363
ever, so unusually serene in the vicinity of humans, and with only ten yards or so separating one crane family from the next, he was not so sure.
“This means,” asked Professor Nelsen, pointedly, “that you don’t expect them to migrate to their Texas wintering grounds?”
“Can’t see as why they should,” said Jellybean. “Well, I can see many reasons why they should,”
stormed Professor Nelsen. Her hands were on her hips, as in the statue of the Ill- Tempered Red-Headed Scorpio Madonna. “Including their well-being and survival. You actually believe you’re going to stick this flock of wild whooping cranes in some crazy building . . .”
“Not so crazy, ma’am,” said Debbie, who had stopped sawing struts in order to

wipe her sweaty brow with a Katmandu prayer cloth. “No, not crazy in the least. This is a round building; it’s square buildings that are crazy.
Drinks Water, a Dakota medicine man, had a vision back before the whites came that his tribe would be defeated and made to live in square houses. When this came true, the Dakota tribes were miserable. Black Elk complained that it was a bad way to live. ‘There can be no power in a square,’ he said. Black Elk said, ‘You will notice that everything an Indian does is in a circle, and that is because the Power of the World always works in circles, and everything tries to be round.’ You’re a zoologist; you should know that there are no squares in Nature, not in macrocosm nor microcosm. Nature creates in circles and moves in circles. Atoms and galaxies are circular, and most organic things in between. The Earth is round. The wind whirls. The womb is no shoebox. Where are the corners of the egg and the sky? Look at the nests those cranes made over there. Perfectly round. The square is the product of logic and rationality. It was invented by civilized man. It’s the work of masculine consciousness. Primitive tribes and matriarchal cultures always paid homage to what is round.
Look at your belly, Professor, there under your girdle.
Look at your tits. Woman is a round animal. The male, in 364 tomrobbins
his rebellion against what is natural and feminine in the universe, has used logic as a weapon and as a shield. The whole object of logic is to square the circle. Civilization is a circle squared. That’s why in civilized societies woman’s lot— and Nature’s lot—has been such a sorry one. It’s the duty of advanced women to teach men to love the circle again. No, ma’am, this won’t be a crazy building; it’ll be a sane one. Unless you’re silly enough to identify rational logic with sanity. In which case, this structure—and everything else we do—will be as crazy as we can make it. The cranes won’t mind taking shelter in our dome. It’s a round building made by round animals. Yippee!”
Professor Nelsen and associate hurried back to Mottburg to report. A conference was held, in the middle of which phone calls were made to Washington, D.C. Late that afternoon, a federal judge (seated at a square table in a square chamber) issued an order. By sundown, it had been delivered to the Rubber Rose.
The court order called for the cowgirls to cease construction on the dome. It

ordered them to move their equipment and themselves away from the lake, to remove guards and barricades from the gates and to make the ranch ready for unrestricted occupancy by government personnel, who would then take whatever steps necessary to restore normal conditions among the population of America’s whooping cranes. The cowgirls were given forty-eight hours in which to comply.

102.
the tube pedicle—the cylindrical flap of belly skin under which Sissy’s pollicerized index finger lay three weeks a-grafting—was snipped at one end, and ta-ta-ta-ta-ta-dum!—a thumb is born!
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 365 Along came a thumb, but what kind of a thumb?
Crooked and red (a thumb to greet flamingos, not whooping cranes), awkward and stiff, as scrawny as its predecessor had been gross. Sissy was exercising this petrified strawberry licorice whip, trying to teach it some simple thumb routines, when the news of the Rubber Rose court order was announced on NBC.
Sissy stood, little scarlet thumbkin dangling rigidly at her side. “How fast do you think I could get to the Dakota hills?” she asked.
Dr. Dreyfus looked up from the pad on which he was sketching thumbs in the manner of Seurat, dreaming, perhaps, of the first living Pointillist digit. “By hitchhiking, you mean? Well, you certainly couldn’t make it within forty-eight hours.”
“Ha ha ho ho and hee hee,’ said Sissy, and it was difficult to argue with that.

103.
some people could not have been more stupefied had archeologists dug up a dinosaur wearing a flea collar.
Some drivers thought that the tadpole that conquered Atlantis had escaped from a drive-in movie screen and was making its way to the sea. Others recognized it as a thumb, maybe the ultimate thumb, and accepted it with the same bewildered fatalism with which they accepted tornados and government.
Here it came, there it went, exerting a force with which few could cope, playing with speeding automobiles the way pre-Friskies cats had played with mice. It put new life in old clunkers and caused late model dreamboats to poot like go-carts. One flick of it and radios would blare on automatically, headlights would glaze over as if in 366
tomrobbins
shock. It could reach across four lanes of heavy traffic and draw the vehicle of its choice to its side. It could even cause cars that had passed it by so suddenly make illegal U-turns and circle back two miles to obey its wishes. It was Sissy’s left thumb, getting its big chance at last, after more than a decade of understudying the right—and a lump inflated in the throat of Creation just to watch it do its stuff. Aw, well, maybe that’s exaggerating, but honestly, had anybody ever been as good at anything as Sissy Hankshaw Gitche was at hitching?
There were favorite maneuvers to bring back and enjoy, and a few fresh tactics she wanted to try: in her mind’s eye she conceived of intricate patterns that she would like to have weaved over the continent. Alas, she had set a deadline for herself: the Dakota hills in thirty hours. So, although she showed off and experimented more than she should have on a speed run, she actually stopped only once—at a telephone booth in western Pennsylvania.
Her intentions had been to call Julian. She was going to tell him of her compulsion to rush to the Rubber Rose, of the inexplicable longing she had to stand by the cowgirls in their time of crisis, and how she just had to see the

Chink again to find out why the clockworks continued to beat so loudly in her blood. She would promise Julian that when she had done what she must do in Dakota, she’d hurry back and rest her new normal-sized thumb against his buzzer. After all, Julian needed her. As she was about to place the call, however, she thought, “Yes, Julian needs me. But I need me, too. And the world needs my need for me worse than it needs Julian’s need for me.” She called Dr. Robbins instead.
Dr. Robbins didn’t answer. Neither did his mustache. They were both across town at the Countess’s penthouse.
When Robbins had read in one of the whooping crane stories in the Times that the Countess owned the Rubber Rose, the ranch adjacent to Siwash Ridge, he had called on the feminine hygiene magnate, and, having been informed of the state the poor fellow was in, volunteered his psy-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 367
chiatric services free of charge. The Countess’s account-ants accepted the offer, and from that day Dr. Robbins had scarcely left the Countess’s side. At the instant of Sissy’s call, in fact, Robbins and the Countess were propped up on satin pillows, playing cribbage and drinking Ripple. The young shrink was teasing the middle-aged tycoon about the damage his brain had taken from Sissy’s thumbing, and the Countess was laughing good-naturedly. The Countess was also winning at cribbage.
Reminding the Countess of Murphy’s Law, which states that if anything can go wrong, it will, the unlicensed psychiatrist then introduced him to Robbins’s Law, which states that whatever goes wrong can be used to your advantage, providing it goes wrong enough. The Countess laughed some more and increased his lead. The phone that was ringing was a long way from here.
Sissy hung up and kept traveling.
While Sissy was still on the road, some eight hours before their court-ordered deadline expired, the Rubber Rose cowgirls issued a communiqué. It was sent to the federal judge, copies to the press. This is what it said: The whooping crane has been driven to the edge of extinction by an aggressive, brutal paternalistic system intent on subduing the Earth and establishing its dominion over all things —in the name of God the Father, law, order and economic progress. From men,

the whooping crane has received neither love nor respect. Men have drained the crane’s marshes, stolen its eggs, invaded its privacy, polluted its food, fouled its air, blown it apart with buckshot. Obviously, a paternalistic society does not deserve anything as grand and beautiful and wild and free as the whooping crane. You men have failed in your duty to the crane.
Now it is women’s turn. The cranes are in our charge, now. We will protect them as long as they still require protection—while working toward a day when the creatures of the world no longer have to 368
tomrobbins
suffer man’s egoism, insensitivity and greed. We refuse your order. We say take your order and shove it.
This flock of birds is staying with us. Get lost, mac.
Needless to say, all the hands did not agree on the text of this communiqué. Debbie, for example, thought the communiqué itself aggressive; she said it reeked of the same hostile sexism that the pardners disliked in men. She lobbied for a more enlightened resolution, one firm yet gentle; she said they should set a good example. Debbie was not alone. As for Bonanza Jellybean, she thought it pretentious to claim that she was working toward a day when the creatures of the world would be safe from man, when actually all she was working toward was a time when any little daughter who wanted to could grow up to be a cowgirl.
Had the Rubber Rose been organized as an anarchistic system, rather than along democratic lines, each cowgirl who chose to do so could have issued her own communiqué, each with equal weight. “Majority rule” held sway, however, and the communiqué—drafted mainly by the Delores del Ruby faction—was presented to the court, the press and the public as the collective opinion of “the whooping crane rustlers.”
And the communiqué was not taken lightly. No, it decidedly was not taken lightly. Sissy made it through the gates of the Rubber Rose only minutes before Delores was arrested entering Mottburg with nearly a thousand peyote buttons in her truck—and only hours before two hundred federal marshals, reinforced by at least a dozen agents of the FBI, took positions outside the ranch, loaded guns trained on anything that shook feather, hoof or tit inside the kinetic confines of the largest all-girl ranch in the West.

 PA RT

VI
To live outside the law you must be honest.
—Bob Dylan

104.
there is an unear thly glow. It comes from a dimension that we do not understand yet.
Meeting in this supernatural aurora are two animate things. Growing accustomed to the light that is the substance of this “landscape,” we recognize one of the things as a human brain. The other proves to be a thumb.
The Brain rests placidly. The Thumb, which has only recently appeared on the scene, gives us an opposite feeling. It appears agitated.
“Why so glum, chum?” asks the Brain.
“I thought you’d never ask,” snaps the Thumb. “I’m just sick and tired of it, that’s all.”
“Sick and tired of what?”
“Taking the blame. Being called ‘the cornerstone of civilization.’ Being treated by one kooky author as if I were a goddamned metaphor for civilization. I had nothing to do with it.”
“Well, now, I wouldn’t go so far as to say that. The civilizing process occurred as a result of advances in technology. Until man had tools, tools to save him labor as well as to give him the predatory edge over other animals, he hadn’t the leisure to develop language or to refine his psy-372
tomrobbins
chic and physical capabilities. You, Thumb, gave man the ability to use tools. If nothing else, you started him down the path to civilization. And were you not with him, helping him, every step of the way?”
“Yeah, I was, but I was innocent. I had no control. I wanted to help him lift shiny pebbles, to pick fruit, to hold flowers, to build bowls and baskets, to make music, to weave; I wanted to help him remove slivers and to caress the flesh of loved ones. I didn’t want any part of that other stuff: that hardware, that killing

and maiming, that overdevelopment, that subjugation of Nature and attempts to build monuments against death. I didn’t want any of it, but I contributed to it because you made me do it, you prick!”
The Brain issues a short scornful laugh that undulates its folds. “The Prick had a lot to do with civilization, all right, but you’ll have to take that up with the Prick. I’m the Brain. Remember?”
“How could anyone forget?”
“Nasty, nasty.” The Brain wags its stem. “You’re behaving rather irrationally,
aren’t you? Are you really blaming me for civilization?”
“Precisely. That ugly crumpled upper surface of yours, that cerebral cortex, is almost nonexistent in lower animals, but once you got the hang of evolutionary growth and a taste of the inflated abstract thoughts you could make with that cortex, you enlarged it and enlarged it until it became eighty percent of your volume. Then you started cranking out rarefied ideas as fast as you could crank them, and issuing commands to helpless appendages like me, forcing us to act on those ideas, to give them form. Out of that came civilization. You willed it into being because, with your cortex so oversized and all, you lost your common ground with other animals, and especially with plants; lost contact, became alienated and ordered civilization built in compensation. And there was nothing the rest of us could do about it. You were holed up in there in your solid bone fortress, a cerebrospinal e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 373
moat around you, using up twenty percent of the body’s oxygen supply and hogging a disproportionate share of nutriments, you greedy bastard; you had hold of the muscle motor switches and there was no way any of us could get at you and stop you from spoiling the delight of the world.” The Thumb’s nail was crimson with anger.
Slowly shaking its configuration of deep crevices and wide protrusions, the Brain sighed. “Yes, yes, there is some truth in what you say. I am the body’s favored organ, but that’s because my work load is so heavy and so vital. And I contributed enormously to civilization, as did you. It couldn’t have happened without me, as it couldn’t have happened without you. But I was just as innocent as you . . .”
“How could you be? You expressed the desires, you formulated the models, you

issued the orders, you were in command.”
Once again, the Brain sighed. It was the sort of sigh one might expect from a fat and rather affected grub: gray and wet and yukky. “You don’t understand me, do you? You think you know me—all that semieducated blather about cerebral cortex evolution—but you don’t really know me.
Oh, I’m sure you’re aware that I’ve an electrochemical network of thirteen billion nerve cells, and maybe you realize that in some of my nooks and crannies —you’re fortunate to be smooth and holistic—these cell bodies are so densely packed that a hundred million fit into a cubic inch, every cottonpicking one of them humming, pulsing and flashing, and none of them exactly alike; yes, you may know that but you can never really know how hard it is to be electrochemical, to be, and I’m not boasting, the most intricate and effective thing in Nature . . .”
The Thumb gestures as if it were bowing a violin.
“That’s the saddest story I’ve ever heard,” it says sarcasti-cally.
“I’m not seeking your sympathy; just your understanding. Bear with me, and if I digress, remember, I’m not as tightly focused as you. Now, listen. There is a constant 374
tomrobbins
shower of incoming electrical pulses hammering at me like rain on a tropical roof. I’m subjected to a never-ending barrage of signals that cause my nerve cells—
neurons, if you will—to fire in succession, like China-town firecrackers. During each of these pulsations, electrical charges are altered, chemicals are expelled, clefts are opened and closed, ions desert one neuron and invade another; it’s unbelievably complicated, and the whole cycle takes place in about a thousandth of a second. A thousandth of a second—and man thinks he has a conception of time. Ha!”
“If I was the Mouth, I’d yawn,” says the Thumb. “Get to the point before you bore me stiff.”

“And nobody likes a stiff thumb, does he,” teases the Brain. “Well, the point partially is this: the information that activates me, that sets my neurons to firing in chain reaction, is sensory and is sent to me by other parts of the body, including you. How I react to the external world is partly a result of the kind of data you send me as you go around touching our environment.”
“This is getting specious,” objects the Thumb. “In the first place, the data I give you are completely objective. I can tell you if a blade is sharp, but I can’t advise you to have it stuck into another body (I never would)—and in the second place, you get such an infinitely greater supply of info from the Eyes, for example, that there’s no comparison.”
“Maybe not,” agrees the Brain, “but you do contribute.
And my point is, the commands I give you and the rest of the body are largely my natural reactions to the sensory stuff you’re always feeding me. Largely. But not wholly.
Because the truth is, my neurons occasionally fire sponta-neously in the absence of a stimulating signal. I’m subjected to a fair amount of randomly generating currents. It isn’t as orderly in here as you might imagine. Often I’m at the mercy of random forces.”
In the eerie light of the indefinable dimension, the e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 375
Thumb twiddles. At last, it says, “You’re trying to tell me you aren’t in control.” “Exactly! Jeeze, I thought you’d never catch on.”
“Well, if you aren’t in charge, what is?”
“I don’t know,” says the Brain, softly, solemnly. The blob seems genuinely sad.
“Oh come off it. Those thirteen billion cells that are cooking in you, you make use of no more than ten percent of them. Ninety percent of your resources lies dormant at all times. If you’d just bother to put that awesome mass to work, if you’d quit being so damn conservative—
Christ, it’s no wonder you’re gray!—and stop worrying about survival all the

time; if you’d start sifting through those vast regions of your slimy self that haven’t been explored, then you’d find out rather quickly where Central Control is located, I’ll bet, and you’d find the answers to the philosophical and spiritual questions that are driving you—and the rest of us—bananas, and that because they’ve been answered wrongly (by that ten percent of you that makes an effort) have fostered the worst features of civilization. You’re holding out, that’s all.”
“Thumb, old buddy, you don’t know the Ass from the Elbow. Sure, I’m a bit conservative; I have to be. It’s my assignment to preserve and perpetuate the species . . .”
“Assignment from whom?”
“From the DNA, of course. But don’t ask me from where the DNA gets its orders, because I honestly don’t know. But the reason I don’t know has nothing to do with the fact that about ninety percent of me is dormant. It’s dormant because I inhibit it, and I inhibit it because if I didn’t I would be swamped by insignificant information.
I’d be reacting to so many signals from the external world that I couldn’t think at all, and every time humans opened their eyes, they’d have something like an epileptic fit. You see, there is nothing in that dormant portion that isn’t already in the rest of me. Just more of it, that’s all. More of the same. There’re no answers to the Great Mysteries hid-376
tomrobbins
den in there, no secret superior systems for evaluating experience; it’s quantitative, not qualitative. I narrow the flow of input to keep us from being drowned in excita-tions, that’s all.”
After that, the Thumb twiddles for a long time. “Then it’s hopeless,” it says finally.
“What do you mean?”
“Well, if you don’t have the answers to the Big Question and don’t know who does, if you aren’t in control and don’t know who is, then we’re right back where we started, and it’s bloody hopeless; we’ll never know What’s What, and we’ll never figure out how to overhaul civilization.”

“Don’t despair. It’s bad form.” Synaptic disturbances cause the Brain to vibrate gently. It resembles the gelatin salad at a banquet for trolls. “I suspect there may be other possibilities. You see, I’m a tool, of sorts, an instrument, an apparatus just as you are. I can be employed. Employed for thinking. Well, mostly I’ve been used clumsily and all too sparingly. Not that humans haven’t thought deep thoughts with me; they have and they continue to. There are probably no deeper, greater thoughts left in me; the best of them have all been thought and rethought many times. But maybe what is needed is not more thinking or even better thinking, but a different kind of thinking.
Over the centuries a handful of humans—poets, madmen, artists, monks, hermits, composers, yogis, shamans, eccentrics, magicians, anarchists, witches and rare bizarre subculturites such as the Gnostics and the Sierra Clock People— have used my thinking machinery in unusual and unpredictable ways, with interesting results. Perhaps if more of these ‘off-beat’ kinds of thinking were done, I might be more useful to the Universe.”
“Hmm,” murmurs the Thumb.
“And look here. I spend nearly as much time dreaming as I do thinking. Yet how many put their dreams to any kind of practical or enlightening application? Precious e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 377
few, I’ll tell you. Sleeping/dreaming may be what I do best. It may be my true vocation, and the time I have to spend tending to survival just chore time; taking out the garbage, as it were.”
The Thumb seems amazed. “You know, Brain, what blows me is that you know yourself and don’t know yourself at the same time, and you know yourself knowing yourself and you know yourself not knowing—oh, this is getting ridiculous.”
“It’s the old paradox,” says the Brain, smiling with its many cracks and fissures.
“But what is the paradoxical force that lets you do that?” asks the Thumb. “What is it that permits you to think about thinking and feel about feeling?”
“Consciousness.”
“Okay all right already. If you have all that consciousness, and consciousness is

so almighty powerful, why can’t you right things, put them in balance . . .”
“Because, dear Thumbo, I don’t have ‘all that’ consciousness. I have a fair amount. But I certainly haven’t a monopoly on it. Everybody assumes consciousness is the exclusive province of the Brain. What a mistake! I’ve got my share of it, to be sure, but hardly enough to claim special privileges. The Knee has consciousness and the Thigh has consciousness. Consciousness is in the Liver, in the Tongue, in the Prick, in you, Thumb. It’s coursing through you, too, and you’re acting it out. You’re each a part of it. In addition, there is consciousness in butterflies and plants and winds and waters. There is no Central Control! It’s everywhere. So, if consciousness is what is required . . .”
“I’m beginning to comprehend,” says the Thumb.
Lo! the moment the Thumb recognizes itself as an agency of consciousness, various pieces of the Puzzle begin to fall into place for it, and though the picture they form makes little logical or literal sense, there is a correct and beautiful feeling about it. “Wow!” cries the Thumb.
378
tomrobbins
“Everything seems much brighter and righter. If only the other parts of the body realized that they are manifestations of absolute consciousness, then . . .”
“Maybe we can wake them up,” suggests the Brain.
“Only we must do it slowly, gradually, so it doesn’t threaten survival.” The Thumb ignores the Brain’s cautious qualifications.
“Let’s try to wake them up,” it says, eagerly. “Let’s try.
Where’s the Prick?”
“Uh, probably over bullying the Cunt around, as usual.

Shall we look?”
In the realm of body light, there is movement, and that is the extent that can be said about it because nothing else can be said.

105.
the radio was playing “The Day-Old Apple Strudel Polka.” Kym was carrying the radio across the corral. She carried the radio as if it were a suitcase full of skunk lice. It was offensive baggage but Kym wasn’t about to set it down. At any moment the song might end and the announcer say something about the siege of the Rubber Rose.
“Man, this is the stupidest music I’ve ever heard,” said Kym. “This radio should have stayed in the privy where it belonged.” But Kym roped the radio to her saddle horn and prepared to give it a ride across the Dakota hills, mice, meadowlarks and other auditorily sensitive creatures fleeing before it in the sunlight.
Kym was taking the radio to Siwash Lake. Hours earlier, the cowgirls had deserted the ranch buildings and withdrawn to the pond. There, where the rippling wheatgrass merged with marsh reeds, they had set up their bare v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 379
ricades and prepared to make their stand. Except for Debbie, each of them was armed; except for Big Red, each of them was scared shitless; without exception, each of them was determined. At their backs were the last sixty whooping cranes left on Earth.
The deadline was up. The American Civil Liberties Union had requested an extension, which news commen-tators felt would be granted since the government, while it could not allow itself to be defied, was not longing for the kind of publicity that would follow another shootout.
The government was aware that its marshals and agents were all too willing to uncork the bottle of blood. The government was not entirely sure its marshals and agents could be restrained. The government pondered the predicament; the marshals and agents throbbed with the lunatic lust of the law; the cowgirls dispatched Kym back to the outhouse for their radio so that they might tune in their fate.
In the outhouse, Kym found Sissy, peeing in polka time. Sissy had hitched up to

the ranch with a TV crew and, in the midst of some confusion, had simply scrambled over the gate. Howdy.
Kym hugged Sissy so hard she didn’t have to wipe herself.
“You know what you’re getting into if you come over to the lake,” warned Kym.
“Yes,” said Sissy, “but I want to be there. I want to see Jellybean. I want to see the cranes.”
“Okay,” Kym agreed. “I’ll go tell Jelly you’re here. If she says it’s all right, I’ll bring a horse for you. Meanwhile, I’d stay in the privy if I were you. No telling when those goons might start something. Ta ta.”
For nearly an hour, Sissy waited in the outhouse. A couple of flies and the photograph of Dale Evans kept her company. The flies kept trying to get familiar, but the photo of Dale Evans, like the bust of Nefertiti, was content to rule over its little niche of eternity. The photo of Dale Evans made America 1945 seem like ancient Egypt.
380
tomrobbins
The outhouse was warm and rather dim. Sissy might have dozed except for the noise at the gates. The marshals and agents were forcibly ejecting persistent journalists, cowgirl sympathizers and bird-lovers, removing them to the checkpoint two miles down the road. The marshals and agents were deploying themselves militaristically. The noise at the gates sounded like Cecil B. DeMille’s garage sale.
Sissy was not overly curious about the activity at the gates. Had she ignored Kym’s warning and stepped outside, she would have looked not to the gates but to Siwash Ridge, hoping for a glance of a dirty bathrobe. We are what we see. We see what we choose. Perceptions are a hypothesis. In a noted experiment at MIT, a scientist outfit-ted two men with prismatic spectacles that grossly distorted their vision. One man was assigned to walk around, pushing the other in a wheelchair. The man who was active swiftly adapted to his new view of the

world, but his passive partner made no adjustment at all. From this, the MIT scientist concluded that in order to perceive an object properly we have to establish some kind of pattern of movement in relation to it. Because Sissy had perceived the events of her lifetime always in relation to her pattern of constant movement, perhaps hers had been a far truer vision than many assumed. Maybe the fact that she would have looked at the crazy old coot on the ridgetop instead of at the besieging forces mounting around her is indicative of . . . well, maybe there is a lesson there.
At any rate, a cowgirl on horseback trotted up to the privy, and it was Heather this time, leading an extra steed.
Heather helped Sissy into the saddle and they set out at a brisk trot. The hills received them. With its skinny million tongues of wheatgrass, the hills whispered to them the secrets it used to share with the buffalo. Like defeated prize fighters waking up after knockouts, asters were starting to open their violet lids all around them. Would prismatic spectacles have made any difference in the way the asters perceived September?
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 381
Swimming through grasses and flowers, the horses carried the two women to the crest of the hill overlooking the lake. From there, Sissy gazed on strange sights. The circular foundation of the aborted dome had been turned into a fort. Barricades of barrels and rusty reducing machines stood ready to perform grim services. Gun metal reflected the sun. Off to one side were hobbled horses and a few goats, chained. The rest of the goats had been left to wander, and even now some of them were grazing their way eastward across the prairie, perhaps heading for Dr.
Goldman’s clinic to teach psychiatry something about male-female relations. In the lake, and along its soggy shores, whooping cranes strode with primal steps. Although quiet, they seemed as charged with uninsulated electricity as if they had just sprung into life.
“We heard on the radio that the judge has set Delores’s bail at fifty thousand dollars,” said Heather. “Now she won’t be here when we really need her.”

Sissy could only nod and stare at the scene below.
As Sissy rode into camp, Kym, Bonanza Jellybean, Debbie, Elaine and Linda danced up to meet her. In homage, they had fashioned fake thumbs for themselves out of willow bark and reeds. At first, they waved these goofy appendages wildly, in unrestrained salute, but their antics lost considerable momentum when—what?!—they noticed that Sissy was only half the monster she once was.

106.
“i knew there was something different about you, but the light wasn’t good in the privy and I didn’t notice what,” said Kym.
“I noticed it right away but I didn’t know what to say,” said Heather, who still didn’t know what to say.
382
tomrobbins
“What happened?” asked Linda.
Sissy shrugged. “Just another miracle of modern technology.” It would have required still another technological miracle to have removed her eyes from Jelly’s.
Before Sissy was completely on the ground, Jelly’s tongue was in her mouth. She stumbled out of the stirrup into a wiggly embrace.
“It doesn’t matter what happened,” squealed Jelly, shaking off one of her own honorary thumbs. “Let’s celebrate!”
“That’s why I was so long in coming for you,” explained Heather. “We had to get a little welcome celebration together.”
Behind the barricades, in the center of the dome foundation, a floral display had been arranged. There were pots of tea, cheese sandwiches, honeyed rice balls, marijuana cigarettes and yogurt with fresh cherries on top. A daisy chain was looped over Sissy’s left thumb as she was led to Debbie’s Tibetan meditation pillow and seated there. Giggles, kisses and tea poured forth.
Facing an imminent battle with federal police, the cowgirls didn’t hesitate to party, because, well, Sissy Hankshaw Gitche had returned and a party was only

proper.
“Ain’t that just like women,” growled the ghost of General Custer, peering through the grass.
Yes, oh yes yes yes sweet yes. Ain’t that just like women, indeed.

107.
ghosts, because they can walk through walls, have a tendency to generalize. Your author, however, should know better. What should have been said was not “just like women” but “just like some women” or, better, “just e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 383
like the feminine spirit.” All women do not possess the feminine spirit.
Some of the cowgirls, for example, conspicuously refused to join the welcome party. They remained at the barricades, as the cranes can bear witness, shooting ugly glances at those who reveled. What was Sissy to them? A noncowgirl. A goofy-handed freak. An older woman who had starred in advertisements that had told them that their cunts smelled bad. Furthermore, what would the enemy think if through its binoculars it could spy this sipping of tea, this weaving of daisy chains, this puffing of pot? Of course, what the cowgirls couldn’t have known was that no enemy was watching them, for every attempt the FBI had made to establish an observation post on Siwash Ridge had met with peculiar disaster (Could the brother-hood of Chink and rock have been responsible?). Between the girls and their adversary was a succession of hills, and in the other direction stretched an open prairie that offered no opportunity for concealment and therefore was of absolutely no use to government.
Ignoring the disdain that her party drew from the barricades, Jelly spooned yogurt and exchanged with Sissy loving expressions. “Looks like every time we get together things are in a mess,” she said.
“So be it,” said Sissy, who was a trifle giddy from marijuana and affection. “It really looks serious this time, though. All these guns . . .”
“Billy West got most of them for us. Did you ever meet him? Twenty-two years old and weighs three hundred pounds. Born and raised in Mottburg, every ounce of him. All during his childhood he had the suspicion he was being screwed. When he finally figured out who was screwing him, he decided to become an outlaw. Not for revenge but for purity.”
“I never met him,” said Sissy, doodling her new little red thumb down Jelly’s

bare arm. “But these guns . . . Are you actually prepared to kill and die for whooping cranes?”
384
tomrobbins
“Hell no,” responded Jellybean. “The cranes are wonderful, okay, but I’m not in this for whooping cranes. I’m in it for cowgirls. It’s a rotten shame that things can get to the point of killing and dying being acceptable alternatives, but the script sometimes turns out that way. I mean, Sissy, I look around me and everywhere I look I see people, as individuals or in groups, conservative people, liberal people and radical people, who have been left crippled and soiled inside by their years of surrender to authority. If we cowgirls give in to authority on this crane issue, then cowgirls become just another compromise. I want a finer fate than that—for me and for every other cowgirl. Better no cowgirls at all than cowgirls compromised.”
“Wow!” exclaimed Linda, who had approached to refill Jelly’s teacup. “That’s pretty heavy, but I reckon that’s the way it is.”
Sissy looked pleadingly at both Linda and Jellybean.
“But you can’t possibly slay this dragon.” With her greatest of thumbs, she gestured across the hills, although she might just as accurately have gestured in any other direction.
“Jelly knows that,” said Debbie, who had approached to replace Sissy’s sandwich. “What she doesn’t seem to know is that it isn’t our job to slay the dragon. It’s tradi-tionally been the work of the hero to slay the dragon. It’s the work of the maiden to transform the hero— and the dragon. I believe that it’s not too late to accomplish such a transformation.”
Jelly seemed to have joined the clouds in a vow of silence. “Shit, Debbie,” she said, eventually (the clouds stuck to their vow). “I can’t argue with you. The Chink says I shouldn’t even try to argue with you. The Chink says I should follow my heart. And my heart tells me that I can’t sit back and let a gang of politicians push cowgirls around.”

Noticing that both Jelly and Debbie were collecting tears in their eyes, Sissy asked, “How did this business get e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 385
started, anyhow? How did you end up with this flock of birds?” Debbie blew her nose on her embroidered bandanna.
“You were aware that we were feeding them weren’t you?
We fed them brown rice last fall and they stayed over a couple of extra days. This spring we decided to try something different. We mixed our brown rice with fishmeal—
whoopers love seafood (minnows and crawdads and little blue crabs), and fishmeal is cheap. Then Delores suggested another ingredient, and we think that’s what did the trick.”
“You mean . . . ?”
“Peyote!” said Debbie and Jelly together.
“Then that professor was right. They are drugged.”
“Aw, come off it, Sissy,” said Jelly. “What do you mean,
‘drugged’? Every living thing is a chemical composition and anything that is added to it changes that composition.
When you eat a cheeseburger or a Three Musketeers bar, it changes your body chemistry. The kind of food you eat, the kind of air you breathe, can change your mental state.
Does that mean you’re ‘drugged’? ‘Drugged’ is a stupid word.”
“You’ve been smoking pot,” said Linda. “You’re drugged. How do you feel? Could we make you do something you didn’t want to do?”
Debbie joined in. “Look at them, Sissy. Do they look like they’re drugged? They hunt, they eat, they crap, they preen, they roost; they laid eggs, hatched them and took care of their young. They dance and whoop from time to time, and every

now and then they go up for a flight.
Only thing they don’t do that they’ve always done is migrate. Is that so drastic?”
Framing the flock in a hole in her cheese sandwich, Sissy had to say, “No, I guess not. One of the largest whooping crane flocks we know about, the one that once inhabited the yellow grass country of Louisiana, never migrated. So it must not be absolute to the species.” She lowered her sandwich. “But the peyote is obviously af-386
tomrobbins
fecting their brains. It’s made them break a migratory pattern that goes back thousands of years. And it’s made them less timid of people. Not even I could get this close to them before, and I have . . .”
“A way with birds!” Jelly and Debbie sang together. “A way with birds, a way with birds!” Their little song skit-tered shrilly over the pond, reminding neither bird nor bird watcher, one hopes, that early American settlers made flutes from the wing bones of cranes.
Sissy blushed. Jelly kissed her.
“The way I see it,” said Debbie, swinging her reddish brown pigtails from lakeside to hillward, “is that the peyote mellowed them out. Made them less uptight. They were afraid of bad weather and humans. That’s why they migrated and kept to themselves. But the peyote has enlightened them. It’s taught them there is nothing to fear but fear itself. Now they’re digging life and letting the bad vibes slide on by. Don’t worry, be happy. Be here now.”
Did Sissy buy that? Not a feather of it. “Fear in wild animals is completely different from paranoia in people,”
she argued. “In the wilderness ecosystem, fear is natural and necessary. It’s merely a mechanism for maintaining life. If the cranes hadn’t had a capacity for fear, they would have disappeared long ago and you’d be having to get loaded with common old everyday meadowlarks and mallards.”

“This here discussion is destined to become academic,”
said Jelly, “because we’ve got less than half a bag of peyote buttons left and Delores’s run ended up in the Mottburg jail. So any day now we’ll get a chance to see how the whoopers behave when they come down, to see if the peyote experience really changed them or not. But in the meantime, I want to say this about fear . . .”
As Jelly pronounced the word fear, it suddenly materi-alized around about them. A noisy unstoppable churning wheel of fear that rolls out of the altitudes like the
flat tire off God’s Cadillac; an e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 387 ear-filling, stomach-tightening busy beater of death-egg fear that has poisoned
the dreams of Southeast Asia’s children.
The helicopter came in low over the hills from the south, chopping the blue September sky into war meat. It headed straight for the tea party.

108.
“hold yer fire!” yelled Bonanza Jellybean. “Hold yer fire!”
Luckily, her cry was heard above the oxygen-slicing swipes of the helicopter rotors, above the fusillade that re-sounded from the panicky cowgirls at the barricades. The shooting stopped as abruptly as it had begun. The only casualty of the outburst was a horse that was struck in the temple by a ricochet. The horse died with fresh grass in its mouth. Even so, death is the last straw.
Jelly had detected in the amateurish stripes of black and red paint with which the copter was decorated the hand not of law but of outlaw. She was correct. When the machine, having blown the floral display into disarray, settled in the wheatgrass a few yards to the north of the dome foundation, out stepped Billy West. Dressed entirely in black, like Delores, he had all he could do to bend his girth sufficiently to allow him to pass under the whirling blades without being beheaded (The co-pilot, a young man with hair to his waist, remained at the controls).
Jelly jumped off the foundation into an elephantine hug. Held above the ground in Billy’s arms, her six-gun clattered against his six-gun.
“Git some gals over here and help me unload,” Billy said. “I brauch ya a few more boxes of ammo. And some Wonder Bread. And some beans. What ya think of my 388
tomrobbins
whirlybird? Got it in a deal over in Montana. Shit. Your trigger-happy chicks went and messed up my new paint job.” Fat fingers pointed at a streak of bare metal where a bullet had grazed the helicopter. “Well, c’mon now, let’s git unloaded; I gotta git loose and vamoose. The feds are gonna be on my tail for sure.”
Boxes of ammunition, crates of bread, cases of beans were passed hurriedly from the chopper, then from girl to girl, finally to be stacked beside the chuck wagon. Then, blowing a chubby kiss, Bill West oozed back into the helicopter and off it

flew for God knows where, its fearful churning agitating the hills.
The quiet that followed was overpowering. Manna from Heaven was never like this. Except for a few Trap-pist clouds, the sky was empty now. No use looking up there. Look instead at the new provisions. At the dead horse. At stunned and embarrassed faces. At the radio, which alone had the gall to infringe upon this contemplative moment.
Agreeing with the turning Earth that the “time” was now six o’clock, the radio was extracting news from the ether. More than one silent cowgirl heard the news announcer say that Judge So-and-So, at the request of the ACLU, had granted a forty-eight-hour extension of the deadline by which the Rubber Rose cowgirls must comply with his order. Negotiations between the cowgirls and the government were expected to follow.
Well, that development wasn’t entirely unexpected. The next one was, though. The announcer informed his listeners that Rubber Rose forewoman Delores del Ruby was free on bond, her bail having been paid by the owner of the besieged ranch, Countess Products, Inc. The surprising and puzzling announcement that the Countess was going Ms. del Ruby’s bail came from the tycoon’s personal adviser, a certain Dr. Robbins of New York.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 389

109.
that night, Sissy and Jelly lay under the same stars, under the same clouds, under the same blankets, under the same spell. Like political candidates, they frequently switched positions. In the campaign of 69, the polls didn’t close until dawn.
As dawn’s famous rosy fingers grasped the life preserver of the horizon, the early-rising cranes overheard Jelly say, “Every time I tell you that I love you, you flinch. But that’s your problem.”
Answered Sissy, “If I flinch when you say you love me, it’s both our problems. My confusion becomes your confusion. Students confuse teachers, patients confuse psychiatrists, lovers with confused hearts confuse lovers with clear hearts.” She chuckled at her awkward aphorism. “I think I need to see the Chink,” she added quietly.
“I think so, too,” said Jellybean. “We cowgirls got two days now with nothing to do but play word games with lawyers. Why don’t you slip away for the ridge?”
“I will,” said Sissy. And as the new day pulled itself onto the deck of the prairie, she did.

110.
she hadn’t intended it to go like this. When it had happened in her mind, it had happened differently. In her mind, there had been a fond embrace, a cool dipper of water to tame her thirst after the steep climb, a restful sitting 390
tomrobbins
in the shade of a rock and wise words filtered through a Sunday school beard, words that barked and snapped at the fleeing heels of confusion.
In her mind, he had kept his robe on, at least until bedtime. There had been no hand in her pants, not right off the bat. And certainly he had had more to say than “Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.”
Expectations v. Realizations. We all remember that old case. In truth, he had spoken more than sniggerese. Immediately upon seeing her—only the rocks know how long he had been watching her climb—he had laughed
“Ha ha ho ho and hee hee,” but then he had nodded from thumb to thumb and said, “That’s wonderful. I like that combination. Now you’re balanced.”
“Balanced?” Sissy had asked. “Balanced? but one’s short and skinny and the other long and plump.”
“Don’t confuse symmetry with balance,” he had answered.
In vain, Sissy waited for an elaboration. Instead of a discourse on opposites and paradox, however, there had been another snigger. Then it was off with jumpsuit and robe. The reader can guess what followed, although the reader probably couldn’t guess with what frequency and duration. Were he obliged to do so, the author could describe it: each drip of sweat, each contraction of muscle, each pant, each moan, each slish of slippery tissue. Were he of a mind to, the author could make you hear slurps as plainly as if you were the briny Popsicle that was being licked; could make you smell the rising tide of toadstool musk as sharply as if he had pulled the funky blankets over your head. However, such descriptive passages might be misconstrued to be an appeal to your prurient interest. Moreover, the author has other data to impart, and the twentieth century is

running out of pages. So, let what is sufficient suffice. Until Sissy and the Chink are on their feet again, the author is going to turn his back on them and read the newspaper. Here, I’ll read it aloud. On page 31, we find
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 391
household hints
Dear Heloise: What does one use to polish rosebuds?
G. S.
Dear G. S.: Bluebird spit and sugar should do the trick. Apply with a bee muff. Heloise

111.
okay, they’re through now. They can barely walk to the cliff edge to watch the sunset, the naughty kids. In retrospect, though, we must consider that the Chink was trying to help Sissy chase her confusion. Having spent the night making love with Jellybean, had she not then spent the day making love with the Chink there could have been no accurate comparison. And the Chink might have thought a comparison necessary, although he would not have seen any necessity for a choice.
Love easily confuses us because it is always in flux between illusion and substance, between memory and wish, between contentment and need. Perhaps there are times when the contradictions of love are so intermingled that the only way to see the truth of love is to pit it against the irreducible reality of lust.
Of course, love can never be stripped bare of illusion, but simply to arrive at an awareness of illusion is to hold hands with truth—and sometimes the hard light of lust affords just such an awareness.
At any rate, it was a calm and satiated Sissy who stood on the parapets of Siwash Ridge, watching snowy specks of whooping cranes melt in the dusk. Neither Jelly nor the Chink occupied her thoughts; instead, a quiet ecstasy gathered around her immediate sense of awareness of her 392
tomrobbins
own illusions, and that ecstatic overview filled the spaces between her and the distant lake.
“What do you think of this business of the cowgirls and the cranes?” she asked. It no longer seemed absurd to her that it had taken an entire day for them to broach the subject.
Was that a sigh that elbowed its way through the tangles of the smoky beard, or was it the higher octaves of an exhausted snigger? “The cranes are beautiful. For that matter, so are the cowgirls. It’s a shame they’re relating to each other in such a compromising way.”

“I think I share your feelings,” said Sissy. “The cranes are still skittish—they insist on a certain distance and maintain some integrity—but I can’t help seeing them as being rather like pets now. Domesticated. It was you who taught me . . .”
“I’ve never taught you anything.”
“Oh, shut up, you old turkey!” Sissy laughed. It was almost a snigger. To keep the Chink from turning away and escaping the dialogue, she seized his limp member and held fast. She was learning how to deal with him. “It was you who made me aware that the domestication of animals was one of history’s major mistakes, a devastating error not only in terms of ecology, but in terms of the psychological and philosophical consequences that are still being suffered. You know, I don’t really hate dogs per se, or even dog owners; it’s the idea of pethood that turns me off, the taming of wild things, the use of animals as surrogate children—or surrogate lovers.” She pondered a moment, without loosening a fraction her grip on the Chink’s dick. “It’s ironic, isn’t it? All the great agrarian cultures of old Europe were matriarchal; then along came the nomadic herds-men from Central Asia with their love of the bull and their concomitant belief in penis power.
The herding tribes gradually overran the feminist states, replacing the Great Mother with God the Father, substituting the Christian death trip for the pagan glorification of life, venerating beasts ahead of vegetation and oh, yeah, e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 393
let’s see, placing the notion of spirit ahead of the fact of matter—you first called my attention to this, you fart.
The women who planted, cultivated, harvested and got high were crowded from their central position by men who drifted from worn-out pasture to virgin pasture, fighting and getting drunk. Well, it’s ironic. Because cowgirls are, by their very name, herders. And these particular Rubber Rose cowgirls not only keep horses and goats, they’ve semidomesticated the grandest, wildest flock of birds in the world. Ironic.”
The Chink shook his beard in the evening breeze. He was hairy inside and out. His beard sent out shocks of milkweed and mutton. “Yes, ironic, finding women who would be women imitating men. But there are other aspects of this saga that

I bet you haven’t considered.”
“If you’ll tell me, I’ll turn you loose.”
“Makes no difference to me. Actually, I was hoping you’d hold on, just in case I yield to this impulse to jump off the cliff.”
She let go.
“Ha ha ho ho and hee hee,” said the Chink. Then he swept his smirk under the rug. “I was merely thinking about the significance of the fact that there are cranes involved in this confrontation between girls and government. The crane is the bird of poetry. It was Robert Graves who pointed out that the crane has been traditionally connected with poetry all the way from China to Ireland. The crane is the national animal, the totem animal of Hungary—and as Graves wrote, there are twenty times more poems written and published in Hungary each year than in any other country. Obviously, cranes bring luck to poets, and vice versa. The only country in Europe where cranes are still breeding is Hungary. The last crane in the British Isles was shot in nineteen six. Russia’s cranes are hiding in Siberia. Japan’s, too. And we know the state of U.S. cranes. Graves says, ‘While there are still cranes in Hungary, poetry is bound to continue.’ He’s right. And if poetry continues, Hungary will continue. Religion and 394
tomrobbins
politics are unnecessary to the culture—or the individual—that has poetry.” “You really don’t believe in political solutions, do you?”
“I believe in political solutions to political problems.
But man’s primary problems aren’t political; they’re philosophical. Until humans can solve their philosophical problems, they’re condemned to solve their political problems over and over and over again. It’s a cruel, repetitious bore.”
Sissy thought she had the old goat this time, and not just by the pecker, either. “Well, then, what are the philosophical solutions?”
“Ha ha ho ho and hee hee. That’s for you to find out.”

She didn’t have him. “I’ll say this much and no more: there’s got to be poetry. And magic. Your thumbs taught you that much, didn’t they? Poetry and magic. At every level. If civilization is ever going to be anything but a grandiose pratfall, anything more than a can of deodor-izer in the shithouse of existence, then statesmen are going to have to concern themselves with magic and poetry.
Bankers are going to have to concern themselves with magic and poetry. Time magazine is going to have to write about magic and poetry. Factory workers and housewives are going to have to get their lives entangled in magic and poetry. As for policemen and cowgirls . . .” The Chink wagged his beard at the ranch below. It was a beard that a nesting crane might enjoy.
If Sissy failed to comprehend completely, at least she no longer felt confused. Through a pinhole in the peace that dropped like the dusk around them, she squeezed one last question. “Do you think such a thing can ever happen?”
“If you understood poetry and magic, you’d know that it doesn’t matter.” The moon rose.
The clockworks struck.
A crane whooped.
She understood.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 395

111A.
poetry is nothing more than an intensification or illumination of common objects and everyday events until they shine with their singular nature, until we can experience their power, until we can follow their steps in the dance, until we can discern what parts they play in the Great Order of Love. How is this done? By fucking around with syntax.
[Definitions are limiting. Limitations are deadening. To limit oneself is a kind of suicide. To limit another is a kind of murder. To limit poetry is a Hiroshima of the human spirit. DANGER: RADIATION. Unauthorized personnel not allowed on the premises of Chapter 111a.]

112.
breakthroughs on siwash ridge notwithstanding, there was precious little communication down on the Rubber Rose. All day, attorneys from the ACLU tried to build bridges between the government and the cowgirls, but each bridge was burned before it was crossed.
As their final and most generous offer in a series of overtures, Justice Department spokesmen at last promised that no charges would be filed against the cowgirls were they to withdraw peacefully and allow the Interior Department to take whatever steps it felt necessary for the present well-being and future preservation of the crane flock. As a sort of bonus, the Assistant Undersecretary of 396
tomrobbins
the Interior said that if a bird was killed for an autopsy, it would be later mounted and presented to the Rubber Rose Ranch as a symbol of that place’s concern for America’s vanishing wildlife.
“Just what we’ve always needed,” snapped Delores del Ruby. “A stuffed whooping crane.”
Yes, Delores was back. And with her return there disappeared any hope for settlement. Many of the pardners, concerned for the safety of themselves and one another, concerned for the birds, concerned, even, for the men at the gates, were growing increasingly willing to accept the government’s terms. Bonanza Jellybean herself conceded that the cowgirls had made their point, had made it repeatedly, had made it before a worldwide audience—so there might be little additional to gain by pushing it any further.
Ah, but Delores. A dark shadow of a woman. With nocturnal eyes. And a midnight voice. A smile like a hiss of asps in the rain. It is said that a long ebony hair curled from the nipple of each of her perfectly formed breasts.
Delores was adamant.
“It isn’t for ourselves that we take this stand,” she said, her voice as heavy and

slow as the lids of a crocodile. “It isn’t for cowgirls.” She flicked her arrow tongue at Jelly.
“It’s for all the daughters everywhere. This is an extremely important confrontation. This is woman-kind’s chance to prove to her enemy that she’s willing to fight and die. If we women don’t show here and now that we aren’t afraid to fight and die, then our enemy will never take us seriously. Men will always know that, no matter how strong our words and determined our deeds, there’s a point where we’ll back down and give them their way.”
Cracking her whip to obscure Debbie’s gentle protests, Delores paraded proudly before the barricades. “I’m prepared to battle!” she cried. “Furthermore, I’m prepared to win! Victory for every female, living or dead, who’s suffered the temporary defeats of masculine insensitivity to their inner lives!”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 397
A few of the cowgirls cheered. Donna said, “I’ll fight the bastards.” Big Red was opening a can of beans with a bowie knife. “I’ll fight ’em with bean gas, if necessary,”
said Big Red.
Delores and her whip shared a grin. Said the forewoman, “The sun’s going down. Let’s those of us not standing watch get some sleep. In the morning we’ll plan our fight. Tomorrow afternoon those of you who’d like can join me in the reeds, where the cranes and I will be sharing the last crumbs left in the peyote sack.”

113.
if you want details of the secret White House whooping crane meeting, you’ll have to read the exposé Jack An-derson will write as soon as he can get his hands on the tapes. If there were any tapes. Seymour Hersh says the conference wasn’t taped; says that, after the taping experiences of the prior President, nothing will ever be taped in the White House again, not a Mantovani concert or an Xmas package or a sprained ankle—and that is why Seymour Hersh plans no in-depth article on the subject. Face it; you may never get the details of the secret White House whooping crane meeting. Are you positive you want them?
The author knows generally what took place in the conference room off the Oval Office that morning in late September, and although he’s been warned to keep mum, he is going to divulge it here. It ought to satisfy you.
Many small streams empty into these pages. I never promised you the Potomac.
One thing that is certain is that the President, the new President, was an uncertain man that morning. In the salts of his bile, he felt lumpy. Somehow, he had a nagging sus-398
tomrobbins
picion that the last President wouldn’t have allowed himself to be called into a meeting on whooping cranes and cowgirls. The last President, thought the new President, would have ordered his aides to take whatever action was most politically expedient in regard to the cranes, while he, the last President, never one to relish the intimacy of social problems, jetted off to Peking or Moscow or Cairo to make historical hay from the international situation, which was desperate, as usual. The new President felt cheapened, felt wimpy about being expected to preside over a meeting on long-legged birds. Indeed, he would have refused had he not been informed that Pentagon and Petroleum wished him to confer. New on the job though he was, he sensed that as President he could no more ignore Pentagon and Petroleum than he could as congress-man, but he sensed, too, in the bubbles of his bile, that he would regret that goddamned meeting on whooping cranes.

The interest of the military and the oil lobby in the Rubber Rose affair was recent. Heretofore, the matter was the concern of the justice Department, which sought to end (in its usual fashion) what it regarded as defiance, subversion and criminal misappropriation of federal property, and of the Interior Department, which sought to get the cranes back on the job and out of its hair. When the generals and oil men suggested a different approach, however, Justice and Interior were, for the most part, in accord.
The meeting opened with the director of the FBI explaining to the new President how the cowgirls had set up their barricades directly in front of the crane flock. “A de-vilishly shrewd tactic,” he called it, for were federal agents to fire on the young women, the lives of the cranes would be jeopardized. “They’re holding the cranes as hostages, as it were,” the FBI chief said. “They’ve got us over a barrel.”
He yielded the floor to Pentagon, represented by a four-star general from the Air Force. The general, with e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 399
facts and figures pulled from a blue plastic folder, explained to the new President that this flock of whooping cranes had been a thorn in the flesh of the military for more than thirty years. Since 1942, by far the finest and most used bombing range in America had been the one on Matagorda Island, off the Gulf Coast of Texas. The majority of the B-52 crews that served in Vietnam had trained over the Matagorda range, for example. In addition, helicopter gunships had made frequent and effective use of Matagorda target runs. Because these whooping cranes winter on Matagorda, or on the nearby mainland across San Antonio Bay in what is known as the Aransas National Wildlife Refuge, the Air Force and Army had been frequently blamed by conservationists for the threatened extinction of the birds. Under pressure, even the Interior Department had begun to harass the Air Force about the bombing range. Naval and Coast Guard operations in the area had also been criticized and curbed, said the general. He told the new President that Pentagon considered the cranes detrimental to the best interests of America’s defense.
The new President was not a thing of beauty, though, in truth, he was fairer to look upon than his predecessor.
The new President possessed a face that might have comforted a lonely orangutan. One could draw a good like-ness of the new President with a weenie

dipped in fingerpaints. There was something close to farce in the manner in which the new President nodded his head quasi-sagely at the conclusion of Pentagon’s testimony and in the way that head jerked to exaggerated attention when the oil lobbyist, pulling facts and figures from a black leather briefcase, began his spiel.
It was hardly necessary to remind the new President of the energy crisis, but the petroleum-pusher did so. Then he proceeded to inform the chief executive of large quantities of oil that lay wasting in the seabed because off-shore drilling in the Matagorda-Aransas region had been disallowed due to this one lousy flock of birds, birds that 400
tomrobbins
contributed not a copper to the Gross National Product and that held not a feather’s weight in negotiations with the Arabs. You get the picture? The new President did.
Maybe it was an overstatement to say the whooping cranes were crunchy granola in the bedsheets of the economy, but they were certainly one more obstacle to smoothing out that badly rumpled bed.
Once again, the FBI director took the floor. It was almost certain, said he, that there would be a showdown on the Dakota ranch. He described the so-called cowgirls as fanatical subversives violently opposed to the American way of life. These women wanted bloodshed, he said.
They had mocked a court order, had refused to negotiate, were at that very moment pointing firearms, possibly of Communist origin, at government agents.
It seemed inevitable to the FBI director that federal lawmen would be fired upon. This did not worry the top cop, for the vastly superior firepower of the U.S. marshals and FBI agents would quickly and thoroughly prevail.
Furthermore, there might be positive benefits from a shootout. Suppose that, in returning the cowgirl’s fire, the marshals and agents should “accidentally” pepper the whooping cranes with shots? Suppose that canisters of ex-trastrength tear gas ostensibly lobbed at the cowgirls were to land in the midst of the birds, who were known to be fatally susceptible to tear gas? In the process of routing the rustlers, the crane flock could be so decimated that the government would be

obliged to capture the few survivors and place them in zoos. Thus, in one fell swoop, the U.S. could rid itself of a band of troublemakers and the whooping crane nuisance. Could the President—in secret, of course—support such an action?
The new President wished he was on the golf course, wished he had a glass of whiskey, wished an aide would hand him a statement to read, wished this and wished that, but no fairy godmother attended the new President.
It was September 29, Brigitte Bardot’s birthday; perhaps e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 401
all the wish-granters were in France waiting for Brigitte Bardot to blow out the candles on her cake.
At last the President opened his banana-biters to concede that the plan had merit, but that he did not believe the public would stand for federal agents shooting teen-aged girls.
The half-dozen others in the conference room dis-agreed. They pointed out that these girls were lawbreak-ers, armed, dangerous, immoral, disruptive influences, enemies of the public good—not unlike the young women who had been annihilated in Los Angeles. There would be no more of a public outcry than in the L.A. executions, and much less than in the suppression at Kent State. Moreover, with a little help from the press, the government should have no difficulty in blaming the tragic fate of the whooping cranes on the violent, lawless actions of the cowgirls. The fair-minded majority would believe the girls had gotten their just deserts.
“Besides,” said the man whom the new President had nominated to be the new Vice President, “it doesn’t make any difference politically. The bleeding-hearts raked me over the coals for permitting the rioters at Attica Prison to be, ah, severely dealt with, but it hasn’t hurt my career one iota. Mr. President, maybe you underestimate the moral sense of the American people.”
It was a convincing argument, though the way it was phrased did nothing to cream the texture of the presiden-tial bile. The new President rolled his eyes from Pentagon to Petroleum. He was trapped and knew it. Narrowing the beam on his monkey lamps, to suggest that he was both thoughtful and independent, he said, “I’ll have to give it some consideration.” He stood with an amateur

actor’s interpretation of dignity, banging his thigh painfully against the conference table. Expensive handtooled shoes, which he remembered now as having been a gift from the oil lobby, bore him from the room.
As soon as possible, he exchanged those shoes for golf 402
tomrobbins
shoes. Before he left for Burning Tree Country Club, the new President called in his most trusted aide. “In two hours—no, better make it three—I want you to tell FBI that I have decided to approve Operation Whooper Pooper.”
The new President went out on the green Earth and knocked a little ball around.

114.
sissy hankshaw gitche never made it back to Siwash Lake. No thumb was large enough, no mastery of movement so perfect, no will over landscape and its travelers of such strength as to get her there.
She was turned back by U.S. marshals and FBI agents, who had parked armored vehicles on the hilltop and now squared off against the cowgirls from close range. The federal forces had held her for questioning, and when she was released, it was in the sour custody of a marshal who escorted her to the Rubber Rose gates and pointed her toward Mottburg.
It took more than that to stop her, of course. She doubled back along the base of Siwash Ridge and into the southern hills, intending to approach the lake from the eastern or prairie side, the only side that was not now guarded by the government. With every step she took, however, the wind increased by some large fraction of a knot. By the time she began to angle onto the prairie, Dakota had its dust up. Like a fog of knife tips, like a hurricane of harsh ants, the dust enveloped her, bit her, choked her, blinded her. She fought the storm, but it would not stand still. She hitchhiked it, but it would not take her with it.
The storm had no sense of humor. There is little in Na-e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 403
ture that does. Maybe the human animal has contributed really nothing to the universe but kissing and comedy—
but by God that’s plenty.
The storm reminded Sissy of that creature that is simultaneously the most dangerous and most pitiful thing on Earth: a scared old man with a title. It was more frustration than fear that drove her back to Siwash Ridge, a refuge whose frenzied heights occasionally showed themselves through the dust. It took her hours to get there, and when she finally crawled, exhausted, into the cave, she felt as if she’d been sandpapered in the hobby shop of Hell.
The Chink sought to apply some varnish—yam oil, to be exact—but Sissy

pushed him away. “Not now,” she said. “I’m sending all my energy to Jellybean. I want her to feel that I’m standing with her in this crazy thing that she does.”
Love grew thumbs. And hitchhiked unmolested through storm and stormtroopers to the lake. It arrived at about the same instant as Delores’s Third Vision. About the same time as a very battered, very skinny, very pooped-out snake with a card —the jack of hearts—under its tongue.

115.
we have a reptile in our totem. It has been there since Eden. It lives at the base of the brain and has a special relationship to women. It is associated with the dark world, dark consciousness, the necessary opposite of light. However, it does not function as a symbol because it is too unpredictable. In a male, its venom can cause violence or art. In a female, it produces a peculiar madness that men do not understand. In children, it is the little red wagon painted blue.
404
tomrobbins
Delores ate seven peyote buttons, after cutting away their poisonous tufts. She gave three apiece to Donna, LuAnn, Big Red and Jody. That left only four buttons in the sack. Not enough for the cranes, who already were showing signs of coming down—restlessness, wariness, noise—
and none of the other cowgirls wished to get high. So Delores ate the last four plants herself. Peyote is ugly to look upon (the “buttons” resemble grungey green Nau-gahyde hassocks for the splayed feet of malevolent gnomes) and horrid to taste. Its seven alkaloids produce seven varieties of abdominal cramps (Within an hour, five cowgirls were puking) and dirty burps of bitterness.
Nauseated, Donna, Big Red, LuAnn and Jody wandered around the lakeshore, batting their eyes at everything that moved, which was everything. Their faces were hot, their legs rubbery, their thoughts soaring. The armored cars on the hill seemed ridiculous, childish. The way the wind kept accelerating, never content with this speed or that, struck them as funny, too. But the wind has no sense of humor, and when billows of dust began to rise, the stoned-out cowgirls took refuge in the barricades, huddled together in an anxious stupor, perhaps re-living the dusty moments of Creation.
But Delores . . . Delores lay in the reeds at the water’s edge. Asleep yet awake, she had sunk so deeply into the hole in her mind that gale and dust could not

follow her.
Jellybean gave up on trying to rouse her and lead her to shelter, leaving her there, spattered with green vomit, to communicate with her totem. Delores moaned. Her hand opened and closed on the handle of her whip. She seemed about to crawl on her belly, to slither into the wind-whipped waters of the pond.
It was there in that state that they found her. “They?”
Niwetúkame the Divine Mother and the snake from the message service. Had they come together? Were they in cahoots, the serpent and the goddess? What was said?
How was the playing card dealt? Was Delores shown jewels or hummingbirds or strikes of lightning? Did she meet e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 405
her double? What business was transacted? Was it stunning and frightful, or was there an air of show biz about it? Delores has never said.
Long after the vision of St. Anthony and Paul’s epileptic flashes on the Damascus road, long after the voices spoke to Joan of Arc and Blake had his eyeballs seared with heavenly wonderments, long after Edgar Cayce’s prophetic trances and Ginsberg’s glimpse of the hip angel, there came the three visions of Delores del Ruby, the third of which sent her stumbling into the barricades, in the dark of night, at the end of a Dakota dust storm, to snatch the rifles from the hands of her cowgirl sisters.
Her black eyes were shining like the wet crowns of drakes; her face had softened into a sweet mask of electric blood. In the moonlight, she stood out like a city surrounded by flames. She walked as if in sleep. With a slow underwater strangeness, she threw guns into the dust-covered grass.
No one dared question her actions; no one so much as thought to question her actions. She obviously was operating under divine authority. She had abandoned her whip.
When she spoke, it was as if someone had filed the burrs off her consonants and fluffed out her vowels. She spoke simply, but with intensity.
“The natural enemy of the daughters is not the fathers and the sons,” she

announced.
“I was mistaken.
“The enemy of women is not men.
“No, and the enemy of the black is not the white. The enemy of capitalist is not communist, the enemy of homosexual is not heterosexual, the enemy of Jew is not Arab, the enemy of youth is not the old, the enemy of hip is not redneck, the enemy of Chicano is not gringo and the enemy of women is not men.
“We all have the same enemy.
“The enemy is the tyranny of the dull mind.
“There are authoritative blacks with dull minds, and 406 tomrobbins
they are the enemy. The leaders of capitalism and the leaders of communism are the same people, and they are the enemy. There are dull-minded women who try to repress the human spirit, and they are the enemy just as much as the dull- minded men.
“The enemy is every expert who practices technocratic manipulation, the enemy is every proponent of standardization and the enemy is every victim who is so dull and lazy and weak as to allow himself to be manipulated and standardized.”
The cowgirls gathered around Delores in a tight circle.
None was missing. Many were transfixed. Their eyes had begun to glow in pale approximation of their forewoman’s orbs.
“It is woman’s mission to destroy as well as to give birth,” Delores told them. “We will destroy the tyranny of the dull. But we can’t destroy it with guns. Or whips.
Violence is the dullard’s Breakfast of Champions, and the logical end product of his or her misplaced pride. Violence fertilizes that which we would starve. But Debbie, we can’t love the dull away, either. We only pollute our own waters

when we try to extend our true affection to those who don’t know how to accept love or to give it.
Love is very powerful, but it has limits and it’s a costly mistake to spread it too thin.
“No, we will destroy the enemy in other ways. The Peyote Mother has promised a Fourth Vision. But it won’t come to me alone. It will come to each of you, to every cowgirl in the land, when you have overcome that in your own self which is dull.
“The Fourth Vision will come to some men, too. You will recognize them when you meet them, and be their steady sidekicks in equal and ecstatic escapades of poetic behavior and romance.” Delores held up a card. The prairie moon illuminated its tattered edges. It was the jack of hearts.
The forewoman seemed to be tiring. Fumes of weariness streamed from her black hair. Her voice was leaning e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 407
against the wall of her larynx when she said, “First thing in the morning, you must end this business with the government and the cranes. It’s been positive and fruitful, but it’s gone far enough. Playfulness ceases to serve a serious purpose when it takes itself too seriously. Sorry I won’t be with you at the conclusion. As you know, I’ve been sick and stupid for a long time. I have a lot to make up for, a lot to accomplish, and there’s someone important that I’ve got to see. Now.”
As graceful as a ballet for cobras, Delores turned and walked away into the dry Dakota night.

116.
the cowgirls didn’t sleep a wink. They felt in-toxicated. The ideological tensions that had divided them had called in well. Purposes had been redefined. Right around the next corner, mysterious Fourth Vision destinies were singing. Whole new aspects of existence beckoned, like stupendous . . . thumbs. The pardners were ready for more of everything, and even that might not be enough.
When life demands more of people than they demand of life—as is ordinarily the case—what results is a resentment of life that is almost as deep-seated as the fear of death. Indeed, the resentment of life and the fear of death are virtually synonymous. Does it follow, then, that the more people ask of living, the less their fear of dying?
Or was Dr. Robbins merely being cute when, explaining how such a cowardly concept as “Theirs not to reason why, theirs but to do or die” could gain popular favor, he said, “Some people would rather die than think about death”?
Well, we can observe only that so elated were the cow-408 tomrobbins
girls, so expectant, so immersed in magic, that it was difficult for them to concentrate on the menace facing them from the hill. They knew merely that they no longer wished to battle with the authorities—on the authorities’
terms—and they had faith that no battle would ensue.
Behind the shield of the armored cars, however, the U.S. marshals and agents of the FBI shared no such notions. The men hadn’t slept a wink, either. The storm had left them dirty, pink-eyed and irritable, but as dawn neared they trembled with the ancient power of the hunter. When they thought of the soft young game they would bring down, they trembled the more. They chewed gum furiously. Many of them had erections.
Neither camp was prepared for dawn when it did appear. Like the hands of a cat burglar, those famous rosy fingers suddenly slid over the window ledge of the hemi-sphere and with silent efficiency began to jimmy the lock of the day.

Before their excited minds could fully cope with the idea, the cowgirls and the G-men were staring at the faint outlines of one another’s barricades.
“Well,” said Jellybean, “what we got to do is one of us has got to go up that hill and tell them boys that America can have its whooping cranes back. Since I’m the boss here, and since I’m responsible for a lot of you choosing to be cowgirls in the first place, it’s gonna be me that goes.”
“But . . .”
“No buts about it. It’s getting lighter by the second. You podners keep your heads down. Ta ta.”
“Jelly! Please!”
The cutest cowgirl in the world stood up and stretched.
For a moment, her rigid arms resembled wings. The goose flesh on her bare thighs drew taut. Her breasts vibrated in her gaudy Western shirt. Had Francis Scott Key observed such breasts in the dawn’s early light, he might have gone below deck and written quite a different anthem. (Or maybe Francis Scott Key would have ignored the erogenous mammaries—mere sexual trappings where men are e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 409
concerned—and commented instead on the more universal example of a lone human being bravely accepting a dread responsibility. Let us not judge the composer unfairly nor confuse his sensibilities with those of that awful roller derby performer, Francis Skate Key.) Jellybean vaulted over the carcass of a reducing machine and planted her Tony Lama boots in the dewless grass. “Nothing to be scared of,” she told herself. “I’ll just get this message delivered as fast as I can and head for the butte to see Sissy.” Jelly had no idea what was going to happen to the Rubber Rose now, but she had never felt more like a cowgirl.
About halfway up the hill, her dimpled knees knocking dust puffs off aster heads, she remembered that she was still wearing her six-gun. Delores had overlooked that one in her disarmament spree. “Better get rid of this,” Jelly thought. “Might give those greenhorn dudes a fright.”

Rubber-doll fingers reached into the holster and drew the gun. She had been pulling pistols out of holsters since she was three years old. Play. Just play. She started to fling the toy away, but before her pinkies could release the pearl handle, a shot rang out from the top of the hill.
Jelly felt a blow to her tummy. Something was stinging her baby fat. The six-gun slipped from her fingers as she lifted her satin shirt tail and pulled down the waistband of her skirt. Bright red blood was running out of her scar; she could see it in the dawnlight, could see the warm brightness pouring from that exact spot where she’d fallen on a wooden horse when she was twelve.
“I wasn’t really shot with a silver bullet,” she confessed to no one in particular. “Or was I?”
She smiled the deliciously secretive smile of one who instinctively recognizes the reality of myth.
Twenty or thirty more sweaty triggers were squeezed on the hilltop, and Bonanza Jellybean was blown into a bloody mush.
Down by the lake, the cowgirls screamed and cried.
410
tomrobbins
They hugged one another in horror. A couple of them, LuAnn and Jody, leaped from the barricades to retrieve their weapons, and were immediately riddled.
A voice bellowed over a bullhorn, “You’ve got two minutes to come out with your hands over your heads.”
But it was obvious there would be no opportunity for surrender. Random G-men already were starting to snipe, and at any second there would erupt an orgy of gunfire intended to seduce with death every cowgirl in the Dakota hills.
Funny no one paid any attention to the helicopter.

Those G-men who heard it at all must have assumed it was one of theirs. Its red and black markings would not have been conspicuous in the dim morning. At any rate, nobody took a shot at the chopper, even though it was flying extremely low. It was so weighted down with ex-plosives it couldn’t have climbed another inch.
By the time it floundered to a landing, dissolving the semicircle of federal cops, nothing could be done about it.
There wasn’t enough “time.” The fat boy in the cockpit—
it was impossible to tell whether he was laughing or crying—pushed the detonator and a mighty blast took the top off the hill—wheatgrass, asters, little bluestem, dust, mice, armored cars, G-men and all.
In the hush that followed the echoes of the explosion, the whooping crane flock rose in one grand assault of beating feathers—a lily white storm of life, a gush of albino Gabriels—swarmed into the waiting sky, and after circling the pond one time—either a limbering exercise or some primordial ornithological farewell— flapped south toward Texas.
Leaving human friends and human foe to clean up their respective human messes.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 411

117.
among the casualties of the whooping crane war was the Chink.
Sissy had been so worried about Jellybean that she couldn’t sleep. The Chink had told her stories, massaged her feet, poured yam wine down her and played a sort of screech owl lullaby on his one-string cigar-box violin, to no avail. At last, she let him seduce her, and sparing no muscle, tendon, ligament or joint, he gave her a real work-out: she had four orgasms and by the time the last one had boiled away, her aristocratic nose was packaging little z’s and shipping them all over. Then the Chink couldn’t sleep.
The Chink sensed disaster. Well, so what? Survival, his own or anybody else’s, was not a top priority with him.
To a man who “kept time” by the clockworks, there were far more interesting and important things. Yet some silly sense of responsibility nagged at him. And nagged. Until he said, “All right, all right, I’ll go out and play, just this once. Might as well; can’t sleep anyhow.”
He had descended Siwash Ridge after moonset, a feat no one else could have duplicated. There are burros that could not walk down that trail by blaze of noon without ruining their reputation as surefooted beasts. There are some mighty round beer barrels that could not roll down the Siwash trail, and some mighty twisted pretzels that could not do a decent imitation.
At the end of the trail, he had met Delores del Ruby.
Neither of them seemed surprised, but it must have been an act.
They stared one another down, she trying to appear cool, he cooler. He wanted to ask her what she was doing 412
tomrobbins
there, but he wouldn’t. She wanted to tell him she was on her way to see him, but she couldn’t. She anchored her hands on her hips; he wrinkled his nose. The harder they tried not to smile, the more the little mouth muscles struggled to get

free. The force of suppressed grins caused their ears to wiggle in the dark.
“So you’re the great boohoo, eh?”
“Maybe I am and maybe I’m not. No big deal either way.”
“I suppose I owe you an apology. I’ve bad-mouthed you from asshole to elbow . . .”
“No big deal.”
“Well, I just wanted you to know that I’m starting to appreciate you. Some of your ideas are not half-bad.”
“You like them? I must have been misquoted.” “Aren’t all big boohoos misquoted?”
“Misquoted, distorted, diluted and deified. In that order. At the hands of his worshipers, Jesus suffered a far worse fate than crucifixion. You have a lovely ass.”
“You’re not much like Jesus.”
“How do you know?”
“Talking about my ass.”
“You don’t think Jesus would have admired your ass?” “Not the Jesus I’ve read about.”
“Exactly. Misquoted, distorted and diluted. Actually, if Jesus had admired your ass, he probably would have kept it to himself. So you’re right; I’m not much like Jesus. I’m not much like Hubert Humphrey, either. Hubert Humphrey can chew two hundred forty-six sticks of gum at one time. I can’t do that.”
“Your cute little mouth was probably meant for finer things.” She leaned over and slapped a kiss on his chops.
First time she’d kissed a man in a snake’s age.

“You’re not half-bad yourself. When you leave your whip at home.” “I don’t play with whips anymore.”
“Oh yeah? What do do you play with?”
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 413
“I’m learning that there’s a whole universe of things to play with. Including big
boohoos.”
“Boohoos can play rough. What do you want from me?
The key to the treasure?”
Delores reached into her black shirt, among the dark nipples, hairs and moles, and drew the jack of hearts.
“Oh, you do card tricks, too. You’re a hell of an act.”
“I’ve had a vision tonight. I didn’t come here to solve anything. I came here to celebrate, and for you to celebrate with me.”
“In that case, you can stay for a while. It’s a wise woman who doesn’t come to the master for solutions.”
“No big deal.”
“Yes, um. It’s going to be light soon. I’ve got to go see some men about some birds. When it gets so you can see, would you mind going up to the cave and keeping Sissy company until I return?”
Delores agreed, and the Chink trotted off through the wheatgrass.
Perhaps he had had a plan, a magic trick to play. He must have had something up his baggy sleeve. But whatever the Chink was going to pull on the G-men never got pulled. When he saw Bonanza Jellybean cut down, the old geezer made a beeline for the government barricades. Nobody heard his shouts. They were obscured first by gunfire, then by bullhorn, next by helicopter and finally by

explosion.
The blast threw him back down the hillside, beard, robe and sandals flying, as if the blast was the toughest bouncer in Jerusalem and he a gatecrasher at the Last Supper. His left hip was shattered.
414
tomrobbins

118.
and so it came to pass that Sissy Hankshaw Gitche and Delores del Ruby spent a sorrowful day in Mottburg.
Midmorning, about the time the sun popped above the grain elevators, the two women (one in disguise) hurried past the Sears-suited coffee-breakers in Craig’s Cafe; past the plump young mothers, hair in curlers, jawing in the self-service laundry; past the Chevrolet agency and the blank-faced American Legion Post. They arrived at the railroad station just as the casket was being loaded in a baggage car. Bonanza Jellybean (alias Sally Elizabeth Jones) had a one-way ticket to Kansas City. Her father, a short, bald-ing man, had come to accompany the body. Jelly’s mom had stayed home out of shame. Chugging out of the station, the train dissolved in teardrops that fell upon the tracks like silver bullets.
Later, while Delores sipped Irish coffee in a dim corner of the Bison Room of the Elk Horn Motor Lodge, Sissy tried to visit the twenty-six cowgirls who were locked up at the Mottburg Grange hall because there wasn’t room in the jail. The pardners were being held without bond, awaiting trial. Sorry. No visitors.
At two o’clock, Sissy and Delores joined a curious crowd at the Lutheran Church cemetery for the funeral of Billy West. There was a token coffin, but no corpse. You would think that out of 300 pounds there would be a spoonful left, but there wasn’t. The family was tense, the preacher embarrassed, the rites perfunctory. The mourn-ers, if you could call them that, were mostly Billy’s peers, who still couldn’t believe that the butterball they’d teased in school had become a famous killer outlaw and had learned to fly a helicopter in one afternoon. As the crum-
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 415
bly prairie sod was being shoveled onto the uninhabited casket, Granny
 
Schreiber said in a loud voice that Billy West was the only hero Mottburg had ever produced, and that she wished to hell she’d joined up with the cowgirls.
Her grandsons spirited her away.
The next stop for Delores and Sissy was the small hospital. The Chink was plastered like a wall. You could have hung a picture on him, and a mirror, too. Beware the butterfly that could bust out of that cocoon. He was in pain, but winking. The eyes he winked with were as cloudy as semen. The women were too depressed to do him any good. Sissy sobbed on his bedside. “Is everything getting worse?” she cried. “Yes,” answered the Chink, “everything is getting worse. But everything is also getting better.”
And so it came to pass that the Rubber Rose Ranch was officially deeded to the cowgirls who had worked it. Each of the surviving hands was made an equal partner. Until the girls were free to do with it what they would, Sissy Hankshaw Gitche was asked to oversee the ranch, at a salary of $300 a week.
Giving away the Rubber Rose was the last piece of business conducted by the Countess before he dissolved his corporation and went to work as an orderly in the maternity ward of a charity hospital, on the orders of his psychiatrist and personal adviser, one Dr. Robbins.
“Get thee back to the aroma of birth,” Dr. Robbins had told the Countess, “for the smells of the female body, the smells you have sought to kill with your totalitarian chemicals, are the very smells of birth, the strong odors of the essence of existence. The nose that is offended by the hot perfume of the cunt is a nose unsuited for this world, and should be sniffing gold on the scrubbed streets of Heaven. The vagina reeks of life and love and the infinite et cetera. O vagina! Your salty incense, your mushroom
416
tomrobbins
moon musk, your deep waves of clam honey breaking against the cold steel of
 
civilization; vagina, draw our noses to the grindstone of ecstasy, and let us die smelling as we did when we were born!”
And so it came to pass that, as soon as possible, Sissy and Delores brought the Chink to the ranch to convalesce. They fixed up the master bedroom for him, the room that had slept Jellybean, and Miss Adrian before her. The ranch house held a minimum of charm for the old fart, but he was well aware that the two women couldn’t carry him up Siwash Ridge. Delores put the stereo in his room, so he could pass the autumn days listening to rock ’n roll while meditating, chanting, eating deep-fried yams and leafing through Oui magazine.
Sissy served him faithfully, and most of the time cheerfully, but she was subject to fits of depression. Once, in a particularly grim despondency, she had turned to him and assigned him partial fault in Jelly’s death. “You should have done more!” she charged.
“I did all I could.”
“What was that? I never noticed you do anything— until it was too late.”
“I set an example. That’s all anyone can do. I’m sorry the cowgirls didn’t pay better attention, but I couldn’t force them to notice me. I’ve lived most of my entire adult life outside the law, and never have I compromised with authority. But neither have I gone out and picked fights with authority. That’s stupid. They’re waiting for that; they invite it; it helps keep them powerful. Authority is to be ridiculed, outwitted and avoided. And it’s fairly easy to do all three. If you believe in peace, act peacefully; if you believe in love, act lovingly; if you believe every which way, then act every which way, that’s perfectly valid—but don’t go out trying to sell your beliefs to the System. You end up contradicting what you profess to believe in, and
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 417
you set a bum example. If you want to change the world, change yourself. You
 
know that, Sissy,”
Of course Sissy knew it. Hadn’t the world’s greatest hitchhiker always operated on that premise? It’s just that she had a brain and our brains are forever having fun with us by making us learn over and over what we’ve known from the beginning. The brain may have been unjustly criticized in this book, but you’ve got to admit, the brain has a weird sense of humor.
And so it came to pass that Delores and Sissy became lovers.
They shared the room adjacent to the Chink’s, keeping close in case he needed anything during the night.
In time, they found themselves needing something during the night.
Delores slept on the left, Sissy on the right. Before long, there wasn’t any middle.
The bed never grumbled beneath them. Even the springs, tattletales by nature, resisted all temptations to squeak. The walls and ceiling auditioned each new position, apparently approving, for nothing cracked or fell. The little squeals that Delores’s serpentine tongue pushed and pulled from Sissy’s pipes, that Sissy’s hitchhiker fingers beckoned from deep in Delores’s throat, attracted no more attention from the hills beyond the fluttering curtains than the squeals of rabbits and mice. Sometimes four sets of lips would be smacking at once, but the edition of Amy Vanderbilt that Miss Adrian had left on the mantlepiece never once corrected them or turned up its nose. It was as if the world was absorbing their love, offering no resistance, but was lightly, softly breathing it in. Sighing “ah!”
Or “ha!”
But certainly not “ma!” Girl-love may have its place in the world, but as the bedsprings, walls, ceiling, hills and even Amy Vanderbilt must know, spit doesn’t make babies.
  
418
tomrobbins
And so it came to pass that when Sissy discovered she was pregnant, her thumb pointed at the Chink. Figura-tively speaking, to be sure, for she told him nothing of it, nor did she mention her condition to Delores or write of it to Julian (whose drinking problem had become so acute that the “beautiful people” now shunned him, leaving him to wheeze out the effects of civilization in the posthippie hangouts of the East Village).
She concealed her morning sickness by pretending it was emotional, a physical manifestation of worry and grief, and no one was the wiser—except for a certain middle-aged woman who read palms and suffered trances in the drive-in movie outskirts of Richmond, Virginia.
And so it came to pass that the Rubber Rose cowgirls were acquitted on all counts. They rode out of Mottburg in a horseback processional, triumphantly waving their hats at the townsfolk, among whom was Granny Schreiber, cheering.
Back at the ranch, a meeting was called. In the bunkhouse, just like the old days. Big Red read the hands some literature from the Girls’
Rodeo Association. “All-girl rodeoing is enjoying the greatest period of growth in its history. Only five all-girl rodeos were held in 1973—this year there were eleven.”
The GRA poop sheet went on to tell how Gail Petska, twenty-five, of Tecumseh, Oklahoma, had earned $19,448
in 1973, bull-riding, calf-roping, barrel-racing and goat-tying.
“I aim to cut into that pie,” announced Big Red. “And I wish the rest of y’all would consider coming with me.
We’ll work outta Texas, just like the whooping cranes.”
“Goat-tying as a sport is a new one on me,” said e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b

l u e s 419
Donna, “but with our experience us Rubber Rose podners ought to be damn good at it. You can count me in, but only if you’ll help me agitate to end all-girl rodeos and get us back to competing with men again, equal, like it ought to be.”
“Exactly what I had in mind,” said Big Red. “But we’ll do it gently, like the Peyote Mother told us to.”
Seven cowgirls in all agreed to move to Texas and hit the rodeo circuit. Kym and Linda had already decided to winter in Florida, working as waitresses, saving money for some new adventure. Six cowgirls had made up their minds to give college a try, including Mary, who was going to study archeology to put her Christian faith to the test of historical fact. Some of the hands thought they’d just knock around for a while, trying different lifestyles on for size—preparing themselves for the Fourth Vision.
Outside the bunkhouse, two men were sitting on the corral fence. One was Elaine’s sidekick, a thirty-five-year-old poet from San Francisco, who had been paying Elaine clandestine visits off and on since she’d been in Dakota.
The other was an old friend of Debbie’s from her Acid Atom Avatar days, a reformed LSD dealer who’d started reading the complete works of Albert Einstein and was learning to think (not reason, but think). Elaine and her sidekick, and Debbie and hers, wanted to run the ranch together. They planned to cultivate sunflowers and market the seeds.
It was agreed. Elaine and Debbie would be granted trusteeship of the spread, but the place was also to be permanently maintained as a haven for the twenty-six cowgirls, should any of them ever need a safe place to retreat from the slings and arrows of outrageous whatever.
Finally, the women voted to change the name of the Rubber Rose to El Rancho Jellybean. And that is how it is known to this day.
There was one more item of business. Heather wanted to know who stole the picture of Dale Evans out of the shitter.

420
tomrobbins

119.
one morning the prairie dogs looked out of their cel-lars and saw that Indian summer had skipped town. It hadn’t even left a good-by note. The prairie dogs shrugged, shivered and ducked inside, hoping to get to sleep before winter began stomping around upstairs in its hob-nailed boots. That very same day, the Chink left, too.
Sissy and Delores returned windblown from a walk to find him hobbling on a cherry stick, his belongings tied in a skin. Out in the chill, Sissy had confessed her pregnancy to Delores, and the two of them had agreed that the Chink ought to be informed. Now, here he was, his second day on his feet, preparing to flee the ranch. And not for Siwash Ridge, either.
“I’m going to go back with the Clock People,” he said.
“I kind of miss those fool redskins and wonder what they’re up to. Besides, they need somebody like me to needle ’em and keep ’em honest. Anarchy is like custard cooking over a flame; it has to be constantly stirred or it sticks and gets heavy, like government.”
“I just can’t believe you’re going to leave the butte,”
said Sissy. But she could believe it. His bone had healed much more quickly than the physicians forecast, yet seeing him leaning on a cane, so drawn and pale, it was difficult to imagine him ever scurrying over the unpredictable architecture of Siwash Ridge again. What Sissy really meant was that she couldn’t believe he was leaving her.
“Easy come, easy go,” said the Chink.
“Wow, you sure have a way with words,” said Delores.
The Chink actually blushed. “I can’t help it if I grew up in an antipoetic culture,” he said. “Language will be different when I’m with the Clock People, though. They’re e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 421
from an oral tradition. And I’m not talking about what you horny hop toads do in

bed every night.”
It was Delores’s turn to blush. Sissy’s turn, too. The walls had betrayed them after all.
“Well,” sighed Sissy, trying to make her teardrops stay in their seats, “if the Clock People give you any inside information on the end of the world, drop us a postcard.”
“The world isn’t going to end, you dummy; I hope you know that much.” He grew uncharacteristically serious.
“But it is going to change. It’s going to change drastically, and probably in your lifetime. The Clock People see calamitous earthquakes as the agent of change, and they may be right, since there are a hundred thousand earthquakes a year and major ones are long overdue. But there are far worse catastrophes coming . . .”
“Inevitable?” asked Delores.
“Unless the human race can bring itself to abandon the goals and values of civilization, in other words, unless it can break the consumption habit—and we are so conditioned to consuming as a way of life that for most of us life would have no meaning without the yearnings and rewards of progressive consumption. So I’d say yes, inevitable. It isn’t merely that our bad habits will cause global catastrophes, but that our operative political-economic philosophies have us in such a blind crab grip that they prevent us from preparing for the natural disasters that are not our fault. So the apocalyptic shit is going to hit the fan, all right, but there’ll be some of us it’ll miss.
Little pockets of humanity. Like the Clock People. Like you two honeys, if you decide to accept my offer of a lease on Siwash Cave. There’s almost no worldwide calamity—famine, nuclear accident, plague, weather warfare or reduction of the ozone shield—that you couldn’t survive in that cave.”
“Okay for us,” said Sissy, “and okay for the Clock People, but what about the rest of the world, the millions who aren’t even aware of the dangers, let alone the alternatives? We should probably be working full-time edu-422
tomrobbins

cating the masses and trying to mobilize them for survival.”
“No, no,” said the Chink. He was leaning heavily on his cane. “Survival isn’t important. What matters is how you survive. Every long-term survival plan conceived by our think tanks and scientists and social strategists involves variations on totalitarianism—anthill-or beehive-type societies. Well, insects are good at survival; better than any other creatures, for sure. That’s because in the insect world there’s no individualism whatsoever. Insect life is rigid and predictable; the bug psyche is concerned with absolutely nothing but survival: survival of the colony, the hive, the swarm. I think it’s better that mankind dies out than resorts to a totalitarian survival lifestyle. We should take as our model the whooping crane rather than the termite. Let’s go extinct if we must, but let’s go with some dignity and humor and grace.
Antmen and beewomen aren’t worthy of survival.”
The Chink reached out and caressed Sissy’s thumb. The left thumb. The transcontinental whopper. So slow was his movement that she didn’t even flinch. “Survival itself is of no concern to me, but here’s something I do find interesting. Suppose that in the next twenty to fifty years a series of overlapping natural and manmade disasters wrecks our social structure and eliminates most of the human race. The probability of this is high. Only small, isolated groups would survive. Now, suppose that you, Sissy, were among the survivors—and if you exercise your option to reside in Siwash Cave, you would be among them.
And suppose that you bear children . . .”
With that, he removed his wrinkled yellow hand from Sissy’s perpetually pregnant appendage and began to caress her temporarily knocked-up belly. His eyes were smiling. My God? Did he know about that, too?
“Suppose that Madame Zoe’s prophecy comes true and you bear five or six children with your characteristics. All in Siwash Cave. In a postcatastrophe world, your offspring would of necessity intermarry, forming in time a e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 423
tribe. A tribe every member of which had giant thumbs. A tribe of Big Thumbs would relate to the environment in very special ways. It could not use weapons or produce sophisticated tools. It would have to rely on its wits and its senses. It would have to live with animals—and plants!—as virtual equals. It’s extremely

pleasant to me to think about a tribe of physical eccentrics living peacefully with animals and plants, learning their languages, perhaps, and paying them the respect they deserve. It’s just fun to consider, that’s all.”
Sissy squeezed his hand. It felt like a wedge of stale cheese. “Fun is fun,” she said, “but how am I going to be the progenitor of a tribe when I’m living on an isolated ridgetop with Delores?”
“That’s your problem” said the Chink. “Actually, I’m not much more concerned with tribal situations than I am with mass populations. Most groups are herds and all herds are a mess. Debbie and those other misguided kids try to pigeonhole me as another Oriental boohoo. They couldn’t be more wrong. The various Oriental philosophers have at least one thing in common: they take the personal and try to make it universal. I hate that. I’m the opposite. I take the universal and make it personal. The only truly magical and poetic exchanges that occur in this life occur between two people. Sometimes it doesn’t get that far. Often, the true glory of existence is confined to individual consciousness. That’s okay. Let us live for the beauty of our own reality.”
Abruptly, the Chink pulled his hand from Sissy’s stomach. He cleared his throat. “Kaff.” And rolled his eyes until they looked like a couple of beans that had just got the word they were being transferred to Boston. “Listen to the way I’m babbling. That dynamite must have loosened one of my transistors. Don’t pay any attention to me.
You’ve got to work it out for yourself. The westbound choo-choo leaves Mottburg at one-forty. I want to be on it. Will you drive me to the station?”
When the authorities dropped charges against De-424 tomrobbins
lores—apparently seeking to wash their hands of cowgirls forever—they had returned the peyote wagon. The women decided to take it to town; after all, the new jeep (a gift from the Countess Foundation) belonged to the ranch and the ranch was now in the control of Elaine and Debbie. Delores drove, Sissy and the Chink beside her holding hands.
Fighting a nasty wind all the way, the serpent-encrusted camper made it to the station with only five minutes to spare. The train was already in. “Schedules!”

said the Chink. “Ironic how I have to follow timetables in order to get back to the clockworks.” His expression was one of admiration. “Don’t ever bet against paradox, ladies. If complexity doesn’t beat you, then paradox will.”
Inside Sissy’s burning ducts, teardrops were running, not walking, to the nearest exit. “But what about your clockworks?” she asked, sniffling.
“My clockworks? Why, I’m carrying it with me. Aren’t you?”
He gave the women kisses of equal duration, although Sissy got a bit more tongue. Then he turned and limped across the loading platform.
Watching him hobble onto the train, Sissy was struck by how small and frail he had begun to look. Delores was weeping now, too.
In the doorway of the railroad car, the Chink suddenly spun, tore open his robe and shook his pecker at them.
“Ha ha ho ho and hee hee,” he sniggered. The old goat.
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 425

120.
with sissy and delores snug in the cave, the ranch in good hands, the Chink rewinding the Clock People, the Countess carrying out pans of afterbirth and Jellybean roping clouds on the prairies of Paradise, things seem to have settled down for those entities whose adventures this book has chronicled.
We might conclude that Even Cowgirls Get the Blues has reached maximum entropy, were it not for one unexpected ongoing unsettling phenomenon: the behavior of the whooping cranes.
Following its flight from Siwash Lake, the crane flock stopped at its Aransas wintering grounds but briefly.
Hours before the commencement of a gala celebration to welcome the big birds home, they took to the air again, leaving the Secretary of the Interior, the Governor of Texas, the Corpus Christi Chamber of Commerce and thousands of patriotic bird-lovers in the lurch.
Continuing southward, they rested in Yucatán for a while, then flapped on down to Venezuela and lunched on leopard frogs in the swamps of the Orinoco. In Bolivia, their droppings fell on a revolution. Over Paraguay, they stained the cathedrals of Asunción. Attempts by Latin-American scientists to get close to them invariably resulted in their moving on. They veered into Chile, maybe to pay tribute to the assassinated poet Pablo Neruda; next stop, Patagonia.
In the U.S. and Canada, many people were aghast. The head of the Audubon Society began to make noises that his fellow birdmen identified as loon and cuckoo. Was it the aftereffects of the peyote diet, or something at once more mysterious and more ominous that was making the 426
tomrobbins
cranes act so? Naturalists argued in laboratories and conference rooms—and the whoopers, crossing the Atlantic toward Africa, paid a call to the South Sandwich Islands.
After several of them were shot down by Congolese poachers, the United

Nations passed a unanimous resolution making harming the cranes a prison offense in every country in the world. Just in time, too, for soon the great white flock was traveling through heavily populated regions. The whoopers ruined a beach in the south of France, upstaged the famous pigeons at St. Mark’s in Venice and are said to have looked picturesque wading in the Thames.
The birds moved on—and are still moving. Nobody knows where they’ll turn up next. Their whoops, greeted with religious fervor along the Ganges, could barely be heard above the horns and squealing tires of Tokyo traffic. At this writing, they are believed to be somewhere in the interior of China, where poems about cranes (non-whoopers, of course) once were produced at the rate of a thousand a day. But precious few crane poems are written in China anymore.
Is the most spendid and sizable American bird searching for a new home, scouring the globe in quest of a place where it can be private and free? That is one theory. Naturally, legends have sprung up around the travels of the whooper. In Burma, a woman claims to have had sexual intercourse with one of the cranes. Shades of Leda and the Canadian Honker.
Perhaps the whooping cranes carry a message, bearing it far and wide. A message from the wild to the wild-no-more. Is such a thing possible?
All’s possible. And all’s well. And since all’s well that ends well, are we to conclude that this is the end?
Yeah, almost. Except to pass along the news that the cranes have just crossed the border into Tibet. Whooping.
PA RT
 
VIII
Flapping your arms can be flying.
—Robert K. Hall

121.
time has passed. Months. Seven to eight months, by the size of Sissy’s belly.
It is midnight at the clockworks. A June midnight, warm enough for sleeping on the cave’s upper level. Sissy and Delores are dreaming, and oddly enough, for they have grown apart in recent weeks, they share a similar dream.
Delores has told Sissy that she wants to go away. She won’t go until after the baby has come, until Sissy is able and well; she loves Sissy, after all, but she doesn’t feel complete with her. It is of completeness that Delores now dreams— of the two opposites of One that, in balance, enable It to both exist and live. A woman without her opposite, or a man without his, can exist but cannot live.
Existence may be beautiful, but never whole. Beneath Delores’s pillow is the card, the jack of hearts.
The swell of Sissy’s belly forces her to sleep on her back, the ideal position to attract the dream. Sissy, too, dreams of the opposite that can complete her, that she can complete. Having a way with birds, Sissy knows that the spirit cannot soar with only one wing. From the Chink, she has learned how a thing’s opposite holds it together.
430
tomrobbins
In Sissy’s dream is a man who does not deny himself, as Julian did, but who is himself to the full limit of himself, as she has been.
The two women are restless. Delores tosses and squirms like a postcard with an illegible address. Sissy mews like a kitten with vodka in its milk dish. Their lids flutter but do not open.
In the cave, a third person is sleeping. Since birth is completion as well as beginning, perhaps that person, too, dreams of being complete. It wakes and

gives Sissy a good jolt. Not with its foot but with its . . . In embryonic life, digits are formed as radiating ridges on the lateral surfaces of the hand and foot segments. Since these ridges grow more rapidly than the bodies of their segments, they soon project beyond the margin as definitive fingers and toes.
Sissy has known for quite a while that the baby has her characteristics. It will come into the world half-Japanese, one-thirty-second Siwash and all thumbs. So be it. The moving finger writes, and having writ, moves on. The moving thumb beckons, and having bect, moves us with it.
The fetus hitchhikes Sissy’s cervix. Her lumbar region.
Her bladder. Even that does not wake her. What finally causes her to abandon her dream is not a gesture but a noise.
A strange noise, loud though far away. Possible sources of the noise are considered by the generals in her brain. It was a rumbling noise. Could it have been a long-awaited earthquake, breaking off the edges of the continent and propelling the Clock People into the Eternity of Joy?
Could it have been the first nuclear firecracker of the war that is in the back of everyone’s mind: the international situation is desperate. Sissy considers waking Delores and moving to the lower level of the cave.
She hears the noise again. It sounds closer this time, and the rumble less apocalyptic. It is, in fact, followed by a higher, more organic sound. Are the whooping cranes coming back? she wonders. Or is some cowgirl caught in another cowboy jam?
e v e n c o w g i r l s g e t t h e b l u e s 431 The noise is closer . . .
Maybe it’s the clockworks. Beating out an entirely new rhythm, measuring unexpected developments in the continuum—such as a fit of laughter on the part of the collective unconsciousness, or sudden cosmic vibrations that defy the more sophisticated measuring devices of science because they are tender and obscene.

The noise is closer yet . . .
Sissy sits up in her bedroll. Delores is awake now, also.
And out on the Siwash Trail, following by flashlight a map hand-drawn in minute detail by the only person who could have drawn it (Chink!), comes stumbling, crashing, falling, cursing and sniggering, Dr. Robbins, your author.
Having gathered all of the material for this book, Dr.
Robbins waits not even for light of day, but plunges, mustache first, into dangerous Dakota darkness to reach Siwash Cave. For what purpose?
Does Dr. Robbins actually believe he will mate with Sissy, that it is his seed that will next ignite her egg, he who will be called daddy by the prophesied brood of big-thumbed babes? Does he believe that he will share the pagan stewardship of Siwash Ridge—and that he is the agent of Sissy Hankshaw’s special destiny?
Dr. Robbins won’t say what he believes. Except: I believe in everything; nothing is sacred/I believe in nothing; everything is sacred.
Ha ha ho ho and hee hee.
SPECIALBONUSPARABLE
in a place out of doors, near forests and meadows, stands a jar of vinegar—the emblem of life.
Confucius approaches the jar, dips his finger in and tastes the brew. “Sour,” he says. “Nonetheless, I can see 432
tomrobbins
where it could be very useful in preparing certain foods.”
Buddha comes to the vinegar jar, dips in a finger and has a taste. “Bitter,” is his comment. “It can cause suffering to the palate, and since suffering is to be avoided, the stuff should be disposed of at once.”
The next to stick a finger in the vinegar is Jesus Christ.

“Yuk,” says Jesus. “It’s both bitter and sour. It’s not fit to drink. In order that no one else will have to drink it, I will drink it all myself.”
But now two people approach the jar, together, naked, hand in hand. The man has a beard and woolly legs like a goat. His long tongue is slightly swollen from some poetry he’s been reciting. The woman wears a cowgirl hat, a necklace of feathers, a rosy complexion. Her tummy and tits bear the stretch marks of motherhood; she carries a basket of mushrooms and herbs. First the man and then the woman sticks a thumb into the vinegar. She licks his thumb and he hers. Initially they make a face, but almost immediately they break into wide grins. “It’s sweet,” they chime.
“Swee-eet!”

IN THE LAST QUARTER of the twentieth century, at a time when
Western civilization was declining too rapidly for comfort and yet too slowly to be very exciting, much of the world sat on the edge of an increasingly expensive theater seat, waiting-with various combinations of dread, hope, and ennui-for something momentous to occur.
Something momentous was bound to happen soon. The entire collective unconscious could not be wrong about that. But what would it be? And would it be apocalyptic or rejuvenating? A cure for cancer or a nuclear bang? A change in the weather or a change in the sea? Earthquakes in California, killer bees in London, Arabs in the stock exchange, life in the laboratory, or a UFO on the White House lawn? Would Mona Lisa sprout a mustache? Would the dollar fail?
Christian aficionados of the Second Coming scenario were convinced that after a suspenseful interval of two thousand years, the other shoe was about to drop.
And five of the era’s best-known psychics, meeting at the Chelsea Hotel, predicted that Atlantis would soon reemerge from the depths.
To this last, Princess Leigh-Cheri responded, “There are two lost continents. . . . Hawaii was one, called Mu, the mother, its tips still projecting in our senses-the land of slap dance, fishing music, flowers and happiness. There are three lost continents. . . . We are one: the lovers.”
In whatever esteem one might hold Princess Leigh-Cheri’s thoughts concerning matters geographic, one must agree that the last quarter of the twentieth century was a severe period for lovers. It was a time when women openly resented men, a time when men felt betrayed by women, a time when romantic relationships took on the character of ice in spring, stranding many little children on jagged and inhospitable floes.
Nobody quite knew what to make of the moon any more.
2
CONSIDER A CERTAIN NIGHT in August. Princess Leigh-Cheri was
gazing out of her attic window. The moon was full. The moon was so bloated it was about to tip over. Imagine awakening to find the moon flat on its face on the bathroom floor, like the late Elvis Presley, poisoned by banana splits. It was a moon that could stir wild passions in a moo cow. A moon that could bring out the devil in a bunny rabbit. A moon that could turn lug nuts into moonstones, turn Little Red Riding Hood into the big bad wolf. For more
than an hour, Leigh-Cheri stared into the mandala of the sky. “Does the moon have a purpose?” she inquired of Prince Charming.
Prince Charming pretended that she had asked a silly question. Perhaps she had. The same query put to the Remington SL3 elicited this response:
Albert Camus wrote that the only serious question is whether to kill yourself or not.
Tom Robbins wrote that the only serious question is whether time has a beginning and an end.
Camus clearly got up on the wrong side of bed, and Robbins must have forgotten to set the alarm.Who knows how to make love stay?
There is only one serious question. And that is:
Answer me that and I will tell you whether or not to kill yourself. Answer me that and I will ease your mind about the beginning and the
end of time.
Answer me that and I will reveal to you the purpose of the moon.
3
HISTORICALLY, members of Leigh-Cheri’s class have not much fallen
in love. They mated for power and wealth, for tradition and heirs, and left “true love” to the masses. The masses had nothing to lose. But this was the last quarter of the twentieth century, and with the exception of a few savage buffoons in Africa, the royalty of the world had long since resigned itself to the fact of its mortal, if not quite democratic, dimensions. Leigh-Cheri’s family was a case in point.
Since his exile, more than thirty years before, the King had made gambling a career. Poker was his work. Recently, however, he had had a taste of open-heart surgery. A major valve had been removed and replaced with a Teflon substitute. The artificial valve functioned efficiently, but it made a metallic noise as it opened and shut. When he was excited, everyone in the room knew it. Due to the audible sound of his heart, he was no longer able to practice poker, a game with necessary concealments and bluffs. “Jesus,” he said. “When I draw a good hand, I sound like a Tupperware party.” He spent his hours watching sports on television, pining for the good old days when he could have ordered referees and umpires to the garrote.
His wife, the Queen, once the beauty of seven capitals, was understimulated and overweight. She had attended, in America, so many second-rate society teas, charity fashion shows, and gala this and gala thats, that she’d begun to exude a kind of pâté de fois gras gas, and the expulsion of this effluvium propelled her from party to ball as if she were a sausage skin inflated by Wagner. With no lady to attend her, she required two hours

to dress, and since she changed clothes thrice daily, the draping, bejeweling, and painting of her bulk amounted to a full-time job. The Queen had long ago abandoned her husband to the tube and her daughter to the attic. Her sons (she could scarcely recall their number) were scattered about Europe, entangled in endless financial adventures of a primarily shady nature, and were lost to her. She had one intimate: a Chihuahua that she clutched to her bosom.
If asked what he expected from the last quarter of the twentieth century, the King would have replied, “Now that it is no longer reasonable to hope for the restoration of the monarchy, my fondest wishes are that the Seattle Mariners win the pennant, the Seattle Sonics make the NBA playoffs, the Seattle Seahawks go to the Super Bowl, and that the play-by-play announcers be replaced by Sir Kenneth Clark.”
The same question directed to the Queen would have educed this reaction: “Oh-Oh, spaghetti-o.” (Her favorite Americanism.) “Vat can you expect of crazy peoples? I’m happy only zat mein vadder and mama mia are in zee Heaven and not hafing to suffer from no stinking modern times. Sacre bleu! I do my duty to zee crown and das ees zat.” The Queen had learned English in seven capitals.
Each night on a worn but opulent Kashan rug, beside a canopied barge of a bed, Queen Tilli lowered herself onto knees that resembled great wads of bubble gum, and prayed for the deliverance of the crown, the health of her Chihuahua, the state of grand opera, and not much else. Each night, King Max would steal into the kitchen to eat by the spoonful the salt and sugar that the doctors had eliminated from his meals.
“It’s something other than five centuries of inbreeding that’s queering this royal family,” thought Princess Leigh-Cheri, whom gossip columnists recently had characterized as “a retired cheerleader, a moonstruck social activist, a tragic beauty who has sequestered herself in an attic.”
“This family has got the Last-Quarter-of-the-Twentieth-Century Blues.” 4
PALACE-IN-EXILE for the Furstenberg-Barcalonas, which was quite
their name, was a voluminous three-story yellow frame house on the shore of Puget Sound. The house was built in 1911 for a Seattle lumber baron, who, in reaction against the turrets, cupolas, and dormers that embellished the Frontier Gothic mansions of his peers, ordered “an American house, a house without frills,” and got just that. It was a barn, a box with a peaked roof. It sat among ten acres of blackberry brambles, like an abandoned radio, broadcasting creaks and whispers to the rain. The house was given to

Max and Tilli by the CIA.
The Furstenberg-Barcalona homeland was now ruled by a right-wing
military junta, supported by the United States government and, of course, the Roman Catholic Church. While the U.S. publicly regretted that the junta permitted so few civil liberties, it was loath to interefere in the internal affairs of a sovereign nation, particularly a nation that could be relied upon as an ally against those left-leaning nations in whose internal affairs the U.S. did regularly interfere. It irritated the U.S. that royalists still loyal to Max and Tilli might disturb political stability in that part of the world. The U.S. paid King Max a modest stipend to keep a low profile and not fan any flames. Each year at Christmas, the Pope sent Queen Tilli a crucifix, candlestick, or some other knickknack that he had personally blessed.
Once, Princess Leigh-Cheri used a papal candlestick for the purpose of self-gratification. She had hoped that at the appropriate moment she might be visited by either the Lamb or the Beast, but, as usual, only Ralph Nader attended her.
5
IF THE CIA imagined that its hospitality would charm the monogrammed socks off of Max and Tilli Furstenberg-Barcalona, it was once again wrong. During the first decade of their residency, the royal couple never complained about the drafty old mansion, for fear the place was bugged. In later years, however, made brazen by advanced age (the bravery of childhood returning, like salmon, to the source), they griped as much as they pleased.
The King would stand at a window (during halftime or the seventh- inning stretch) and stare apprehensively at the creeping tide of brambles. “I may be the first monarch in history to be assassinated by blackberries,” he would grumble. His Teflon valve grumbled with him.
The Queen caressed her Chihuahua. “You know who lifed here bevore ve did? Smokey zee Bear.”
Encouraging her parents to move was futile, Leigh-Cheri learned.
Max, a tall, horse-faced man with a Hitlerian mustache, shook his head so hard and long that were he wearing his crown it would have toppled off and tumbled into the berry vines. “Changing places at the table doesn’t fool the cards,” Max said.
“Moof? I got three teas this veek,” said Queen Tilli. “No! I forget. I got four teas. Oh-Oh, spaghetti-o.”
Like a pair of r’s trapped in a Spanish songbook, Tilli and Max lurked

in their shoebox castle, waiting to be rolled. 6
THE PRINCESS LIVED in the attic.
As a child, it had been her favorite playroom. It was private and cozy up there. She had liked the low, slanted ceiling and the complete absence of coat-of-arms wallpaper. As a child, she had appreciated the view of Puget Sound from the attic’s west window and the view of the Cascade Mountains from the window facing east. There was one mountain in particular, a white beak, broad and cloud-snagging, that would nearly fill the east window on those days when vision was not obscured by mist or rain. The mountain had a name, but Leigh-Cheri could never remember it. “It’s an Indian name, I think.”
“Tonto?” asked the Queen.
Now the windows were painted black-except for a single small pane through which the Princess could entertain an occasional corner of the moon.
The Princess lived in the attic and did not come out. She could have come out, but she chose not to. She could have raised the windows or scraped off the paint, but she chose not to do that, either. Having the windows nailed shut and painted black was her idea. The attic was illuminated by one forty-watt bulb. That was also her idea. The Princess had furnished the attic, as well.
The attic was furnished with a cot, a chamber pot, and a package of Camel cigarettes.
7
ONCE, Leigh-Cheri had lived much as any other young woman within her parents’ domicile. She had a room in the north end of the second floor, a room with a full-sized bed and a comfortable chair, a desk at which to do her schoolwork, and a dresser filled with cosmetics and underwear. There was a phonograph dedicated to the faithful reproduction of rock ‘n’ roll and a mirror dedicated to the flattering reproduction of her own image. There were curtains at the windows and heirloom carpets on the floor, while upon the walls posters of the Hawaiian Islands rubbed edges with photographs of Ralph Nader.
The room sometimes seemed pinched and stifling to her, compared to that “big wide world out there” for which she yearned, yet she was fond enough of her quarters and returned to them agreeably each evening when classes were over and this or that committee for this or that ecological cause was adjourned.

Even after she was forced off the cheerleading squad at the University of Washington, a humiliating experience that provoked her to withdraw from college, she occupied her room as correctly as a cephalopod its shell. Those days, she shared the room with Prince Charming.
Prince Charming was a toad. He lived in a terrarium at the foot of Leigh-Cheri’s bed. And yes-you nosy ones-she had kissed the toad. Once. Lightly. And yes, she’d felt silly as shit. When one is a princess, however, one is tempted by things that we common people barely comprehend. Besides, the circumstances under which she had acquired the toad encouraged superstitious behavior, and, moreover, was a little teenie quick peck on the top of a frog’s head so much sillier than kissing the picture of a desired one-and who hasn’t kissed a photograph at one time or another? Leigh-Cheri kissed Ralph Nader’s photo fairly frequently.
It might be noted here that Freudian analysts of fairy tales have suggested that kissing toads and frogs is symbolized fellatio. In that regard, Princess Leigh-Cheri was, on a conscious level, innocent, although not so naive as Queen Tilli, who thought fellatio was an obscure Italian opera and was annoyed that she couldn’t find the score.
8
PRINCE CHARMING WAS given to Leigh-Cheri by old Gulietta, the last living of the servants who had accompanied Max and Tilli into exile. At Leigh-Cheri’s birth, in Paris, four of those loyalists were still in service, but all but Gulietta died soon after the royal family took up residence in the Puget Sound palace. Perhaps it was the dampness.
The U.S. government provided a servant, also, a man named Chuck who was to function as gardener, chauffeur, and general handyman. He was, of course, a CIA informer. As age added infirmity to his native indolence, Chuck was no match for the Great Northwest blackberries, and they edged ever closer to the walls of the house. At the wheel, he was terrifying. King Max and the Princess had for some years refused to ride with him. Chuck still drove the Queen to her galas and teas, however, seemingly oblivious to the Hail Marys and Oh-oh, Spaghetti-O’s bubbling in rank fear from the back seat.
Regularly, each fortnight, Chuck sat down to poker with the King. Even with a telltale ticker, the King regularly, each fortnight, took Chuck to the cleaners. Thus, Max added Chuck’s salary to his own. “It’s all he’s good for,” said Max, whose great mule face would smile faintly at what he must have considered a little joke on the CIA.
Gulietta, on the other hand, was in her eighties, both efficient and

energetic. Miraculously, she had kept the huge house free of cobwebs and mold while doing the royal wash and preparing six meals a day: since Max and Tilli were carnivores and Leigh-Cheri vegetarian, each meal had been, in fact, two.
Old Gulietta spoke no English, and Leigh-Cheri, who was brought to America when she was not much taller than a jug of wine, spoke nothing else. Yet, it was Gulietta who told Leigh-Cheri her bedtime story each night until she was fifteen, always the same story, a story so frequently repeated that the girl came not only to comprehend its general meaning but to actually understand every word, though pronounced in a foreign tongue. And it was Gulietta who sensed the true dimensions of Leigh-Cheri’s depression after the Princess suffered a miscarriage during the UW homecoming game. (She was in midair-all a-leap-when the blood broke loose, rivulets racing as if to hemophilic touchdowns from beneath her diminutive cheerleading skirt.) It was Gulietta who sensed that her young mistress had lost more than a baby that autumn afternoon, had lost more, indeed, than the baby’s father (the second-string quarterback, a pre-law student who headed the campus chapter of the Sierra Club and intended to work for Nader someday), although the memory of him sitting on the bench pretending not to notice as she was whisked from Husky Stadium in embarrassment and fear haunted her mind and her heart like an ugly specter in muddy shoes.
It was Gulietta who, during that unhappy aftermath, came to her with hag hands cupped around a toad. The Princess was not immediately overjoyed. But she had heard tales of Old World totems, and if toad magic could help, she’d give it a try-and let the warts fall where they may.
Alas, Gulietta, this was an American frog of the last quarter of the twentieth century, a time when wishing apparently no longer led to anything, and Leigh-Cheri eventually named it Prince Charming after “that son-of-a-bitch who never comes through.”
9
SANDWICHES WERE INVENTED by the Earl of Sandwich, popcorn was invented by the Earl of Popcorn, and salad dressing by the Oil of Vinegar. The moon invented natural rhythm. Civilization uninvented it. Princess Leigh-Cheri would have liked to reinvent it, but at that point she hadn’t a clue.
She had ovened that rubber cookie called the diaphragm and gotten pregnant anyway. Many women do. She had played hostess to that squiggly metallic houseguest who goes by his initials, IUD, and suffered cramps and

infections. Many women do. She had, in desperation and against her fundamental instincts, popped the pill. She became ill, physically and emotionally. Many women do. She had experimented with the jellies and jams, creams and goops, sprays and suppositories, powders and foams, gels and gunks only to discover her romantic personality-she had grown up with European folk tales (one tale, at any rate)-repulsed by the technological textures, industrial odors, and napalm flavors. Many romantic personalities are.
This constant battle with the reproductive process, a war in which her only allies were pharmaceutical robots, alien agents whose artificial assistance seemed more treacherous than trustworthy, was gnawing with plastic teeth at her very concepts of love. Was it entirely paranoid to suspect that all those stoppers, thingamajigs, and substances devised to prevent conception were intended not to liberate womankind from the biological and social penalties imposed on her natural passions but, rather, at the insidious design of capitalistic puritans, were supposed to technologize sex, to dilute its dark juices, to contain its wilder fires, to censor its sweet nastiness, to scrub it clean (clean as a laboratory autoclave, clean as a hospital bed), to order it uniform, to render it safe; to eliminate the risk of uncontrollable feelings, illogical commitments, and deep involvements (substituting for those risks the less mysterious, tamer risks of infection, hemorrhage, cancer, and hormone imbalance); yes, to make sexual love so secure and same and sanitary, so slick and frolicsome, so casual that it is not a manifestation of love at all, but a near anonymous, near autonomous, hedonistic scratching of a bunny itch, an itch far removed from any direct relation to the feverish enigmas of Life and Death, and a scratching programmed so that it would in no way interfere with the real purpose of human beings in a capitalistic, puritanical society, which is to produce goods and consume them?
Since she could not possibly answer that question-she couldn’t even ask it without getting winded-and since the lunch-hour, parking-lot rendezvous in the back of her boyfriend’s van were frankly deficient in certain romantic details that she’d always associated with sex, the Princess decided that she would enter a second exile: celibacy. Before she could steal safely across the border, however, the biological IRS caught up with her and exacted its stubborn price.
10
WHEN HER LOVER, the quarterback, implored her to have her pregnancy “taken care of,” Princess Leigh-Cheri rested her forehead

against the plate glass of the vegetarian restaurant in which they were dining and wept. “No,” she said. “No, no no."
At nineteen, she had already undergone one abortion. She would not tolerate a second. “No,” she said. A teardrop hung out of each blue eye, like a fat woman leaning out of a tenement window. They bobbed, balanced, and bobbed again, as if dreading the uncertain journey down her cheeks. Wavering there, her teardrops reflected for a moment the sheen of the soybean curd upon her plate. “No more vacuum cleaners, no more steel. They can scrape my heart, they can scrape my brain before they’ll scrape my uterus again. It’s been over a year since my last D and C, and I still feel raw in there. It feels bitter when it should feel sweet, it feels ragged when it should feel smooth, it feels deep purple when it should feel pink. Death has thrown a stag party in the most sacred room in my body. From now on, that space belongs to life.”
Any time that technology subverts a benevolent natural process, the sensitive smell sulfur. For Princess Leigh-Cheri, abortions had not only the reek of totalitarianism but the shriek of betrayed meat. If another D and C was an intolerable idea, however, the prospect of inopportune maternity was equally distressing-and not just for the usual reasons. Furstenberg- Barcalona was an ancient lineage in which strict codes had evolved. If a female member of the family wished to possess full privilege, if she would someday be queen, then she must neither marry nor mother before the age of twenty-one, nor could she before that age forsake her parents’ domicile. And although she considered herself one of the people, Leigh-Cheri did very much indeed desire full royal privilege. Leigh-Cheri believed that she could use that privilege to help the world.
“Fairy tales and myths are dominated by accounts of rescued princesses,” she reasoned. “Isn’t it about time that a princess returned the favor?” Leigh-Cheri had a vision of the princess as hero.
As Queen Tilli put it when Max asked her what she thought their only daughter wanted out of life, “She vants to buy zee vorld a Coke.”
“What?”
“She vants to buy zee vorld a Coke.”
“Well,” said Max, “she can’t afford it. And the world would demand
Diet Pepsi, anyhow. Why doesn’t she buy me a martini, instead?” 11
IT WAS AUTUMN, the springtime of death. Rain spattered the rotting leaves, and a wild wind wailed. Death was singing in the shower. Death was happy to be alive. The fetus bailed out without a parachute. It landed in the

sideline Astroturf, so upsetting the cheerleaders that for the remainder of the afternoon their rahs were little more than squeaks. The Huskies won anyway, knocking off favored UCLA, 28-21, and at nearby University Hospital, where Leigh-Cheri had to have a pint of common blood pumped into her royal conduits, the interns were in a festive mood.
Leigh-Cheri’s dilemma was resolved, for the time being, but she felt like a black candle at a wake for a snake. When an intern whistled “Proud Mary,” she had no inclination to sing along.
Her boyfriend telephoned about eight that evening. He was at his fraternity house. They were having a victory party. He said he’d drop by the hospital the next day, but he must have lost the address.
When her identity was learned, the Princess was moved to a private room. She was given the best sedative in the house. Château du Phenobarbital 1979. Asleep at last, she dreamed of the fetus. In her dream, the fetus went toddling off down some awkward dirt road like Charlie Chaplin at the end of a silent movie.
By Tuesday, she was physically recovered to the degree that she could return to campus, where she learned that her status as the only genuine princess west of New York was insufficient to deflect the moral indignation of the committee on cheerleaders. Asked to resign from the yell squad, she resigned from classes, as well. She also resigned from men, but rather late to appease the King and Queen.
Max’s heart was rattling like a full set of dishes when he told Leigh- Cheri that she must shape up or ship out. “We’ve been liberal with you,” said Max, “because, well, after all, this is America. . . .” Max neglected to point out that it was also the last quarter of the twentieth century, but that, no doubt, was self-evident.
“Adolf Hitler vas a wegetarian,” Queen Tilli reminded Leigh-Cheri for the three-hundredth time. Tilli was attempting to discourage her daughter from joining a natural foods commune in Hawaii, an option that appeared to be open to her if she elected to relinquish royal privilege. In turn, Leigh- Cheri might have reminded the Queen that Hitler ate two pounds of chocolate a day, but she’d grown weary of that dietary debate. Besides, she’d decided to protect her claim on royal privilege, even though it meant subjecting herself to tighter social restrictions.
“You goan be a gut girl, then?”
“Yes, mother.”
“If we deal you a new hand, will you play by the rules?” “Yes, father.”

They observed her as she turned to go upstairs. They observed her as if it were the first time they’d really looked at her in years. Despite her pale color and the unhappiness that clung to her the way a bad dream clings to a rumpled pillowcase, she was lovely. Her hair, as straight and red as ironed ketchup, rode gravity’s one-way ticket all the way to her waist; her blue eyes were as soft and moist as huevos rancheros, and the long curl of their lashes caused fimbrillate shadows to fall on the swell of her cheeks. She was not tall, yet the legs that hung out of her skirt seemed a tall woman’s legs, and beneath her No-Nukes-Is-Good-Nukes T-shirt, her astonishingly round breasts jiggled ever so slightly, like balls balanced on the noses of Valium- eating seals.
Tilli stroked her Chihuahua. Max’s heart made a sound like the sleigh bells on Mrs. Santa Claus’s dildo.
12
NEOTENY. NEOTENY. NEOT-Oh how the Remington SL3 enjoys that word! Unrestrained, it would fill the page with neotenyneotenyneotenyneoteny. Of course, it bothers the Remington SL3 not a comma’s worth that very few readers know what the word means. Given an opportunity to write it again, however, the machine would be inclined toward definition.
“Neoteny” is “remaining young,” and it may be ironic that it is so little known, because human evolution has been dominated by it. Humans have evolved to their relatively high state by retaining the immature characteristics of their ancestors. Humans are the most advanced of mammals-although a case could be made for the dolphins-because they seldom grow up. Behavioral traits such as curios-ity about the world, flexibility of response, and playfulness are common to practically all young mammals but are usually rapidly lost with the onset of maturity in all but humans. Humanity has advanced, when it has advanced, not because it has been sober, responsible, and cautious, but because it has been playful, rebellious, and immature.
One needn’t feel excessively ignorant if one was unfamiliar with neoteny. There have been queens and kings and princesses who also were oblivious to it, in word and in action.
During the period following Leigh-Cheri’s miscarriage, the supposed virtue of maturity was cardinal in the Puget Sound palace. Although understandably vague about what maturity might actually be, Leigh-Cheri strove, with her parents’ encouragement, to acquire more of it. Nightly, until the age of fifteen, and on a few evenings thereafter, she had been told a

bedtime story; until a few weeks prior, she had been flailing about paroxysmally amidst pompons, shouting incomprehensible incantations meant to further the fortunes of a band of innocent sprites worshiping a sacred fruit (upon the fortunes of that same football team habitually rode much of mature King Max’s bank account, but that’s another matter). It was about time she grew up. Princesses were not exactly a dime a dozen. And this princess, it had suddenly dawned upon Tilli and Max, was a sexpot.
She might be expected, upon attaining the age of twenty-one, to marry well, very well, indeed. In fact, there was probably no man, from Prince Charles to the U.S. president’s son, whom she might not fairly mate. Those prospects pleased the King and Queen. Heretofore, living under the stare of the CIA, having agreed to “retire” from the royalty circuit, the Furstenberg-Barcalonas sheltered no particular ambitions for their daughter and were content to have her indulge a normal American girlhood (although they were unconvinced that developments such as vegetarianism and ecology were normal). Now, it occurred to them that if this young woman were to attract the attention of the right man, one of the emerging Arab rulers, for example, even the CIA probably would be powerless to prevent a most propitious union.
It was the wrong time to speak of marriage to Leigh-Cheri. Leigh-Cheri had driven a wooden stake through the valentine. Yet, on the premise that it would aid preparation for her mission in life; on the premise that were she ever to resume her studies in environmental sciences she might not be so easily distracted by vibrations from the half-shellfish half-peach that occupied the warm, watery bowl of her lower regions, she made herself available to maturation, if maturation would have her.
Put away was her teddy bear. Put away were her Beach Boys records. Put away was her fantasy of a Hawaiian honeymoon with Ralph Nader, her daydream of Ralph and her driving off together into the Haleakala sunset with their seat belts fastened. Not that she’d changed her mind about how perfect she’d be for him-he worked too hard, smiled too little, and dined as one indifferent to both flavor and fate; he clearly was a hero in need of rescue by a princess-it was just that romantic fantasies were . . . immature.
Leigh-Cheri read books on solar radiation. She perused papers on overpopulation. To keep abreast of current events, she watched every news telecast that she could, fleeing the TV room immediately whenever a love story was dramatized. She gave her ears to Mozart and Vivaldi (Tchaikovsky was painful). She fed flies to Prince Charming. And she

worked at keeping her person and her room exceedingly clean. “Cleanliness is next to godliness” was one slogan of maturity to which Leigh-Cheri could faithfully subscribe-not stopping to consider that if by
the last quarter of the twentieth century godliness wasn’t next to something more interesting than cleanliness, it might be time to reevaluate our notions of godliness.
13
GULIETTA DIDN’T WORK ON SUNDAYS. It was only fair. Even Friday got Thursday off, thanks to Robinson Crusoe. On Sundays Queen Tilli would lumber into the kitchen, her Chihuahua affectionately clasped, and make brunch.
The odor of frying bacon, sausage links, and ham tiptoed on little pig feet all the way to the north end of the second floor. Inevitably, the odor would awaken Leigh-Cheri. Inevitably, the odor made her simultaneously ravenous and nauseated. She hated the sensation. It reminded her of pregnancy. Every Sunday morning, celibacy notwithstanding, Leigh-Cheri awoke to a pan of fried fear.
Even after the panic had subsided, she found little to admire about a Sunday. To her mind, Sunday was where God kept his woolly slippers. It was a day with a dull edge that no amount of recreation could hone. Some might find it relaxing, but the Princess guessed that a great many people shared her feeling that Sunday generated a supernatural depression.
Sunday, a wan, stiff shadow of robust Saturday. Sunday, the day divorced fathers with “visitation” rights take their children to the zoo. Sunday, forced leisure for folks who have no aptitude for leisure. Sunday, when the hangover knows no bounds. Sunday, the day the boyfriend didn’t come to the hospital. Sunday, an overfed white cat mewing hymns and farting footballs.
The day of the full moon, when the moon is neither increasing nor decreasing, the Babylonians called Sa-bat, meaning “heart-rest.” It was believed that on this day, the woman in the moon, Ishtar, as the moon goddess was known in Babylon, was menstruating, for in Babylon, as in virtually every ancient and primitive society, there had been since the earliest times a taboo against a woman working, preparing food, or traveling when she was passing her monthly blood. On Sa-bat, from which comes our Sabbath, men as well as women were commanded to rest, for when the moon menstruated, the taboo was on everyone. Originally (and naturally) observed once a month, the Sabbath was later to be incorporated by the Christians into their Creation myth and made conveniently weekly.

So nowadays hard-minded men with hard muscles and hard hats are relieved from their jobs on Sundays because of an archetypal psychological response to menstruation.
How Leigh-Cheri might have chuckled had she known that. On a particular Sunday in early January, January being to the year rather what Sunday is to the week, she wasn’t aware of it, however, and she awoke in mean spirits. She pulled a robe on over her flannel pajamas (she’d discovered that silk had a tendency to agitate the peachfish), brushed the knots out of her hair, knuckled the crunchy granola from the corners of her eyes, and descended, yawning and stretching, into the hot hog hell of brunch. (She knew without tasting that her soybean curd would have soaked up some of the essence of bacon.)
As it has for so many for so long, the Sunday paper helped her through the day. Regardless of what else the press might have contributed to our culture, regardless of whether it is our first defense against totalitarianism or a wimpy force that undermines authentic experiences by categorizing them according to faddish popular interest, the press has given us big fat Sunday papers to ease our weekly mental menstrual bloat. Princess Leigh- Cheri, wriggle into your cheerleader uniform one last time and show us the way to hooray: two, four, six, eight, who do we appreciate? The Sunday papers, the Sunday papers, yea!
It was in the Seattle paper, on that particular Sunday in early January, that Leigh-Cheri initially read of the Geo-Therapy Care Fest, the what-to- do-for-the-planet-until-the-twenty-first-century-arrives conference. It was an event that would have speeded up her pulse even had it not been scheduled to occur in Hawaii. As it was, she bounced in her mother’s lap- hardly the ultimate mature act-for the first time in years and began her petition to attend, for under the Furstenberg-Barcalona code to which they now strictly adhered, the Queen would have to accompany her. Tilli on Maui? Oh-Oh, spaghetti-o.
14
THIS MAY BE SAID for the last quarter of the twentieth century: the truism that if we want a better world we will have to be better people came to be acknowledged, if not thoroughly understood, by a significantly large minority. Despite the boredom and anxiety of the period, or because of it, despite the uneasy seas that separated the sexes, or because of them, thousands, tens of thousands seemed willing to lend their bodies, their money, and their skills to various planetary rescue missions.
Coordination of those far-flung projects was a primary aim of the Geo-

Therapy Care Fest, slated for the last week in February at Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii. Leading experts in the fields of alternative energy sources, organic farming, wilderness preservation, alternative education, holistic medicine, nutrition, consumer protection, recycling, and space colonization were to lecture and lead panel discussions and workshops. Proponents of many diverse self-help systems and consciousness curses, ranging from ancient Oriental to contemporary Californian, would also be in attendance. Moreover, certain futurists, artists, visionary thinkers, shamans, and poetic seers had been invited to participate, although several of the poets and one of the novelists were suspected by the organizers to register on the lunatic scale.
Don’t think the news of that conference didn’t melt the ice off the dog dish at thirty paces. If her life span were a salad, Leigh-Cheri would have dived into the dressing to present that conference with a perfect crouton. Not the least of her excitement was the information that Ralph Nader would deliver a key speech there and that one whole evening would be devoted to the subject of alternative methods of birth control. Even in the Siberia of celibacy, Leigh-Cheri was concerned with contraception. The problems associated with it had been more frustrating to her than the aggressive, competitive, assertive, egocentric, and crude behavior of the men with whom those problems should have been shared, and although she was presently free of the problem, she was too intelligent to mistake flight for victory.
The King and Queen hadn’t seen their daughter so animated in months. True, this animation was a relative thing: Leigh-Cheri moved about like a zombie, yet a few days earlier she had more closely resembled a corpse. That was progress. Now there were moments when, speculating about the Care Fest, she actually appeared on the verge of smiling. What would any compassionate parents do? Give in, of course. Allow her her conference.
As the date approached, Queen Tilli decided that Maui was simply too barbarous. It was bad enough being stuck on the outskirts of Seattle, it raining trout teeth night and day, blackberry vines trying to force their way into the privacy of her own chamber, without transporting her posh poundage to some jungle island inhabited by surfer boys and vacationing strumpets, to whose company on that particular week would be added a couple thousand coocoos intent on saving a world they didn’t fit into anyway. The Seattle Opera Company was opening Norma with Ebe Stignani that same week, and although Stignani was well past her prime, she provided true legato, a rare commodity in those jagged times, and the

Queen had been invited to be honorary hostess at a reception for the aging soprano. Since Max dare not travel because of his valve, it was agreed about the middle of February that Gulietta would chaperon the Princess in Hawaii.
Gulietta was antique and couldn’t mouth ten words of English, but she was so generally competent and so fond of Leigh-Cheri that Max and Tilli were convinced that her chaperonage would be adequate. They looked at one another nervously, however, when the skinny old servant, upon learning of her assignment, went to J. C. Penny and bought herself a bikini.
15
THE SKY IS MORE IMPERSONAL than the sea. Above the birdline, higher than the last referential cloud, at an altitude that oxygen will not voluntarily frequent, across a zone where light drives the speed limit and never stops for coffee, crossing that desert in which gravity is the only sheik, a vehicle, owned and operated by Northwest Orient Airlines, whistled through its nostrils as it bucked the current of the Pacific jet stream. Leigh- Cheri turned from the window through which she’d been gazing down upon cloud top and ocean top. Leigh-Cheri looked at the old woman asleep in the adjacent seat. Leigh-Cheri had to smile. Rippling the canned air of the first- class cabin with her gentle snores, Gulietta was so serene that it was difficult to imagine her causing all the trouble she’d caused back at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport a few hours before.
Leigh-Cheri had been as surprised as anyone by the frog. Although the frog was relatively large and uncommonly green (a distant cousin, at best, of Prince Charming), there had been no hint of its presence in Gulietta’s little wicker case. No sign of frog at all until the sudden shriek of the uniformed woman at the security check station.
A bit of a row had resulted. PLEASE, NO JOKES said the sign above the checkpoint, and this must be a joke. Mustn’t it? The incident was complicated by the fact that Gulietta could offer no English explanation, that her surname resembled a line from an optometrist’s examination chart.
Security guards conferred. Gulietta and the Princess were searched a second time. Their hand luggage was reexamined. The frog was X-rayed to ascertain that it wasn’t some kind of weapon. Could they be positive it wouldn’t explode? “It’s her pet,” said Leigh-Cheri, who, in fact, had such a dim idea what the frog was doing in the old woman’s case that even the memory of a European folk tale couldn’t illuminate it. “It’s her little pet.” Leigh-Cheri batted her lengthy lashes, breathed in such a way that her round breasts seemed to rotate twelve degrees on their axes, and smiled so

broadly that certain tiny mouth muscles, long neglected, struggled painfully to break free. “It’s her little widdle pet.”
Having extracted a promise that Gulietta would keep the amphibian enclosed-it was nestled in damp towels inside her bag-the charmed guards decided to let the two women and their widdle pet proceed. Aboard the jetliner, however, moments before takeoff, a different set of guards, accompanied by an official of the airlines, abruptly appeared and demanded the frog. “You can’t take a live frog into Hawaii!” one of them exclaimed. They were quite agitated.
At that point, Leigh-Cheri recalled her previous visit to the islands. She remembered how adamant they’d been about restricting travelers bringing in pets of any kind. She remembered that bringing in fresh fruit or flowers was prohibited. She saw in her mind’s eye the Honolulu airport’s exhibition of insects, a collection of mounted bugs and beetles that had been discovered aboard visiting aircraft. She remembered that at Paradise Park the performing parrots and cockatoos had all had their wings clipped so that they might never escape and breed in the wild. The ecology of the islands was so delicately balanced that the introduction of one new species of mammal, bird, or reptile might throw it into chaos; one nonindigenous plant disease or invading female insect might ruin a billion-dollar business, be it pineapple for eating or palm trees for viewing.
Leigh-Cheri motioned to Gulietta, who was lashing the guards furiously with the vilest invectives in her strange language. Leigh-Cheri motioned for Gulietta to give up the frog. The crone was unconvinced. She hesitated. The captain, copilot, and flight crew had joined the administrator and guards in the first-class cabin. Passengers in coach and economy were in the aisles, peering up front to learn what the commotion was about. One of the guards yanked the wicker case from Gulietta’s gnarled hands. The lid flew open. The frog took a tremendous leap. It landed on the head of a stewardess, who sent shocked whispers the length and breadth of the plane by screaming, “Aiii! Get that fucking thing off of me!”
The frog took another leap and came down on an empty seat. Several men dove for it. They missed. Dives and misses continued for a while, until the frog was cornered in the cockpit, where a guard captured it, but not before he had slammed his elbow into a navigational instrument, causing a possible malfunction. The device had to be checked and rechecked. All in all, the flight was delayed one hour and forty-six minutes.
Gulietta hadn’t flown before. She was confused by the objections to the contents of her luggage. She refused to eat the snack served by the still-

flustered stewardess.
How could Leigh-Cheri make Gulietta understand the Great Hawaiian
Mongoose Reaction?
Hawaii once had a rat problem. Then, somebody hit upon a brilliant
solution. Import mongooses from India. Mongooses would kill the rats. It worked. Mongooses did kill the rats. Mongooses also killed chickens, young pigs, birds, cats, dogs, and small children. There have been reports of mongooses attacking motorbikes, power lawn mowers, golf carts, and James Michener. In Hawaii now, there are as many mongooses as there once were rats. Hawaii had traded its rat problem for a mongoose problem. Hawaii was determined nothing like that would ever happen again.
How could Leigh-Cheri draw for Gulietta the appropriate analogy between Hawaii’s rodents and society at large? Society had a crime problem. It hired cops to attack crime. Now society has a cop problem.
The answer, of course, is that Leigh-Cheri could not draw that parallel at all. That parallel had never occurred to her. It had occurred to Bernard Mickey Wrangle, however.
Bernard Mickey Wrangle sat in the economy cabin of the Northwest Orient airliner and pondered the rat/mongoose-crime/cop analogy. Bernard Mickey Wrangle sat in the rear of the aircraft with seven sticks of dynamite strapped to his body.
Bernard Mickey Wrangle was clever. Most likely, he could have successfully boarded the flight to Hawaii with seven sticks of dynamite strapped to his body under any conditions. Certainly, though, the frog had helped pave his way.
(The frog, incidentally, was released at a pond near the Sea-Tac runways. For being close to a busy airport, it was a pleasant pond. It featured lily pads and cattails and fat mosquitoes for lunch. But let’s face it, damn it all, it wasn’t Waikiki.)
16
THE JETLINER, missing one small green traveler but carrying a bonus seven sticks of dynamite, continued its crossing of what every novice surfer knows to be the most inappropriately named body of water on earth. The jetliner whistled to conceal its fear of gravity. Leigh-Cheri read magazines to conceal her excitement.
Excitement widened in her eyes like periods at the end of billboard sentences. Commas of excitement wobbled in her tummy, and question marks squirmed in there as well. Every once in a while, she felt as if she were sitting on an exclamation point.

Such a wonderful idea was the Geo-Therapy Care Fest that it was surprising to her that it hadn’t happened before. An assembly of the best thinkers, the most advanced technicians, the most concerned scientists, the most enlightened artists, pooling their knowledge and their dreams for the betterment of all. That was what the United Nations would be were the United Nations not in the hands of the dull and the corrupt. Were it not in the service of ego-politics.
At the Maui conference, Buckminster Fuller would deliver a paper on “Harvesting Pollution: Thar’s Gold in Them Thar Spills.” Gary Snyder would talk about “The Buddhist Approach to Fighting City Hall.” The lecture by the environmentalist Dr. Barry Commoner (his name induced in the Princess a twinge of superiority followed by a deeper twinge of guilt) would be entitled, “There’s No Such Thing As a Free Lunch.” The Alternative Birth-Control Workshop would be led by Linda Coghill, the woman who singlehandedly slashed the illegitimacy and abortion rates in Portland, Oregon. On the morning of February 26, Leigh-Cheri would have to choose between a demonstration of the photovoltaic cell (a breakthrough in reducing the expense of solar power) and a panel discussion led by Dr. Linus Pauling on Vitamin C as a prevention and a cure. Oh my, this was exciting. Was there any planetary problem of significance that the Care Fest overlooked? Leigh-Cheri couldn’t think of one.
Maybe Leigh-Cheri would admit nothing significant in the fact that the articles in the magazines she was perusing were largely about romance: who was breaking up-or taking up-with whom, what to do when husbands lose interest, how to cope with loneliness and rejection, and so forth. The advertisements in the magazines were almost exclusively concerned with making oneself attractive to the opposite sex. Moreover, the movie that was screened aboard the plane was a love story. The movie had an unhappy ending and thus was considered “realistic.” And when the Princess put on a headset to listen to the taped music that Northwest Orient provided its passengers, the songs she heard were about hearts breaking and hearts aching, or hearts quaking as they slid, spewing sparks, across the electrified threshold of new love.
Maybe Leigh-Cheri elected to disregard the evidence because it was just too personal. If beneath the great issues and all-encompassing questions (as underplayed as they were in the last quarter of the twentieth century) a more intimate struggle raged, a struggle whose real goal was romantic fulfillment, maybe it was courageous and honorable to attempt to transcend that struggle, to insist on something more than that.

Maybe.
In the rear of the aircraft, Bernard Mickey Wrangle reached inside his jacket . . . and pulled from his breast pocket . . . not a detonator . . . nor a fuse . . . not yet . . . but a package . . . of Hostess Twinkies.
Too bad the Queen insisted that you fly first-class, Leigh-Cheri. Too bad you’re sitting next to your snoozing old chaperon instead of next to Bernard Mickey Wrangle. Since Hostess Twinkies always travel in pairs-because like the coyote, the killer whale, the gorilla, and the whooping crane, Hostess Twinkies mate for life-there would have been a Twinkie each for you to share.
17
THE AIRLINER CIRCLED honolulu the way a typing finger circles a keyboard, awaiting the message from the control center that would instruct it when and where to land.
And they land . . . . . . on A. Runway A.
A for “attic.”
A for “amore.”
What we have here is an unexpected touchdown on the runway of the heart. This flight could only terminate in a room close to the moon.
The No Smoking sign was on. (In the attic, the Camel cigarettes were never to be lit.) The signal to Fasten Seat Belts was given. (In amore, belts fasten and unfasten at delicious intervals.) Gulietta clutched her wicker case, which now bore but the slightest spoor of frog. Leigh-Cheri clutched her thighs, as dry now as princess thighs ought to be. Bernard Mickey Wrangle, listed on the passenger manifest as T. Victrola Firecracker but once known to millions as the Woodpecker, clutched nothing, not even his black powder underwear. The Woodpecker knew better than to clutch and to hold. The Woodpecker simply grinned. He grinned because he had reached Hawaii without detection. He grinned because Twinkie cream always made him grin. He grinned because it was the last quarter of the twentieth century, and something momentous was happening.
INTERLUDE
MAYBE I’M MISTAKEN ABOUT the Remington SL3. I’m no longer convinced that it will do. Oh, it’s a superb tool-for the proper desk in the proper office. If there’s a treatise you wish to compose, a letter to the editor, an invoice, a book review, why it will cross your t’s before you come to them, and I’m positive that there are secretaries who would prefer it to

their mates. But for the novelist, any typewriter is a formidable thing; and the Remington SL3, with its interchangeable printing units, its electric margins, variable line spacer, paper-centering scale, personalized touch control, automatic paragraphing button, vertical and horizontal half- spacing, express backspacer, skip tabulation, improved umlaut maker, and misspell alarm, well, to face that degree of mechanical sophistication in the midnight of your sanctum is to know a brand of fear.
First of all, it hums, purrs like a seductive housecat, fairly trembles upon the table; it seems eager-too goddamned eager-to get to work. Hey! Relax, fella. I’m thinking. Don’t push me.
Then there’s its color: blue. Not matte black; mysterious, deep, absorbent, accepting, noncommittal, priestly black like typewriters of old, but a harsh, chill, modern blue that causes it to affect, even by candlelight, the suspecting, censorious glare of the customs inspector or efficiency engineer. It appears to be looking over my shoulder even as I am looking over its.
All right, those toadstool spores I inadvertently snorted while cleaning out my refrigerator may be magnifying sensation, but this is not the first time that intimidation by typewriter has caused me to consider the pen. Pencils are out of the question, their marks are impermanent. Of course, fountain pens leak; ballpoints have no style, and, moreover, always run away from home. The peacock quill appeals to me, the woodpecker quill even more so, but the last are hard to come by and the first scratchy and slow.
Perhaps what a novelist needs is a different sort of writing implement. Say, a Remington built of balsa wood, its parts glued together like a boyhood model; delicate, graceful, submissive, as ready to soar as an ace.
Better, a carved typewriter, hewn from a single block of sacred cypress; decorated with mineral pigments, berry juice, and mud; its keys living mushrooms, its ribbon the long iridescent tongue of a lizard. An animal typewriter, silent until touched, then filling the page with growls and squeals and squawks, yowls and bleats and snorts, brayings and chatterings and dry rattlings from the underbrush; a typewriter that could type real kisses, ooze semen and sweat.
Or-a typewriter constructed of tiny seashells by a retired merchant sailor, built inside a bottle so that it can be worked only by the little finger of the left hand of a right-handed person. A left-handed typewriter for a left-handed task. (You’re aware, I assume, of the scientific discovery that our universe lives side by side with a parallel universe. The two universes,

identical in many respects, are opposite in electrical charge and magnetic property: the “anti-universe,” so called, is in effect a mirror image, a reverse copy. Well, certain amino acids are left-handed, some are their reflection, right-handed. But the proteins in living organisms are always left-handed. The right-handed amino acids are impossible to digest and can be harmful to life. It’s smart not to eat anything you find in a mirror. As for those novels that claim to “mirror” reality . . . may a word to the wise be sufficient.
(Toward the wind-down of the Second World War, an American flyer parachuted from his burning plane to land in an isolated village near Japan’s Inland Sea. The villagers, devout Buddhists far removed from the hot arena of events and the Shinto/fascistic/industrial philosophies that had spawned the events, took in the broken pilot and nursed him. They kept him concealed and alive for several months, but eventually he died.
(Since Buddhists have reverence for all life, they also respect the proprieties of death. The villagers wished to award the dead foreigner his entitled burial, but the only funereal customs with which they were familiar were Buddhist, and those, of course, would have been inappropriate.
(Having packed the corpse in pond ice, they set out to make inquiries about Christian burial procedures, all very discreetly so as not to arouse the suspicion of the authorities. Their luck was small.
(At last, someone smuggled into the village a Japanese translation of an English language book that promised to provide the information they sought. The book was called Finnegans Wake.
(If you can picture those remote 1945 Japanese peasants earnestly trying to hold a drunken Irish wake, complicated by the experimental wordplay of James Joyce, you can picture the relationship between an author, his typewriter, and that reality to whose recreation he’s obliged to apply the southpaw touch, even though he knows only too well the function Arabs and Hindus assign the left hand.)
I’m not so far gone that I expect technologists to be interested in designing machines for artists-why, if novelists got wooden typewriters, poets would demand that theirs be ice. What is more likely is that technology will bypass artists, that a day is coming when our novels will be written by computers, the same devices that will paint our murals and compose our tunes. If I’m chuckling, it’s because I’m imagining a computer, programmed to produce logical variations on the eighteen possible literary plots, I’m imagining that computer trying to deal with what happened in Leigh-Cheri’s attic. If I’m chuckling, it means that the Remington SL3 had

better watch its P’s p’s and Q’s q’s. Phase
II
18
IT WAS MID-AFTERNOON, a good five hours before moonrise, when
the flight touched down in Honolulu, but already the mai tais were swaying, the pineapples were jiggling, the mongooses were mating, and coconuts were rolling in ecstasy. The Hawaii sun, in contrast to, say, the Nebraska sun, had obviously fallen under the influence of the moon and was given to deporting itself in a fairly feminine fashion. Not that the Hawaii sun wouldn’t fry your hide off should you show it disrespect, but it had a romantic aura, a decidedly lunar attitude toward amore that the sun of Mexico would consider soft and weak. Despite the tangle of traffic, the din of condominium construction, the smoking sugar refineries, and the strange spectacle of Japanese tourists roaming the hot beaches in business suits and street shoes, Hawaii was, indeed, a travelogue tableau; a living Pap smear for the paradise flu.
So goofy/erotic was the Hawaiian language that the street signs read like invitations to pagan whoopjamboreehoos, and “nookie” was on the tip of every sober tongue. Hawaiian was a language that could name a fish “humuhumunukunukuapua’a” and a bird “o-o,” and never mind that the bird was larger than the fish. Humuhumunukunukuapua’a (a typewriter that enjoys that word as much as the Remington SL3 couldn’t be all bad) still played in Hawaiian waters, not fifty yards from the leather soles of Sony executives, but the o-o, that gorgeous honeysucker, was long gone. Hawaiian royalty favored the tail feathers of the o-o for their ceremonial capes. Hawaii’s rulers were mammoth, their capes were very long. It took a lot of tail feathers to make a king a cape. The o-o was plucked into extinction. O O spaghetti-o.
Although the ecological implications would have appalled her, Leigh- Cheri could fancy herself in o-o. If our pale Princess could have chosen a land to be queen of, Hawaii was it. The instant she stepped off the jetliner, her heart began to pump pure hibiscus juice. If her hands were tied behind her and the world had Hawaii in its wall safe, she would have figured a way to get it out. Hawaii made the mouth of her soul water.
Alas, Leigh-Cheri hadn’t much opportunity for reverie. Because of frog problems, her plane had landed on Oahu merely minutes before her connecting flight on inter-island Aloha Airlines was scheduled to depart for Maui. She and Gulietta had to run, if you could call Gulietta’s scurrying a

run, from one end of Honolulu’s airport to the other.
So intent was their dash that they failed to notice that Bernard Mickey
Wrangle was loping along beside them. 19
THE FLIGHT TO MAUI was as bumpy as a kite’s. As the small plane was tossed about by drafts, several passengers acquired the hue of Hawaiian foliage. Leigh-Cheri, however, had been driven to the airport that morning by Chuck the chauffeur, and after such a ride, it would have taken more than a little turbulent air to unnerve her. Gulietta was simply too old to be unnerved by anything, although she was still pouting about the confiscation of her totem. As for Bernard M. Wrangle, who sat behind the Princess studying her red hair, his heart thumped peacefully against the explosives taped to his chest.
As the aircraft bobbed, so did Leigh-Cheri’s mind, up and down, from one level to another, thinking one moment of the charms of Hawaii, to which she had a mild addiction; thinking the next of the Care Fest and the great good that might come from it; bouncing to thoughts of herself, who she was and who she might be.
“I’m a princess,” she reminded herself, with a minimum of conviction, “a princess who grew up in a blackberry patch near Seattle, who’s never so much as set a tennis shoe in the nation where her royal blood was formed, a princess who doesn’t know diddly squat about princessing, a princess who’s behaved like a twit and a twat; who’s been, well, disappointed in men and romance, who’s a bit confused, who’s got a lot to learn, but a princess, after all; just as fucking much as Caroline or Anne, and although in the last quarter of the twentieth century the very idea of royalty may seem artificial, archaic, and somewhat decadent, I insist on my princess-hood because without it I’m just another physically attractive woman with that I-went-to- college-but-it-didn’t-do-me-any-good look and nothing much to offer anyone. If I’m lost as a lover, I’m still right here as a human. I feel the pain of humanity inside me, in my tummy, about eight inches above the peachfish. Whether I’m unduly sensitive to this pain because I’m a princess- could the whole world be the pea under my mattress?-I don’t know, but because I’m a princess, I might be able to do something to help lessen humanity’s pain. And the Care Fest just may show me the way to do it. I wonder if Ralph is staying at our hotel? I hope I packed my No Nukes T- shirt. Don’t Crosby, Stills, and Nash hang out in Lahaina? Can I drink more than one mai tai without taking on the aroma of an aroused butterfly?”

Her thoughts dipped and lifted in unstable air.
Before long, they had passed over Molokai and could see the reddish corona of Haleakala rising in the southeast like the stone in a Truman Capote mood ring. “Maui,” whispered Leigh-Cheri to Gulietta. “Maui.” Her own red top bounced as she sat up straight in her seat. Bernard-the Woodpecker-regarded it with the gaze of an expert.
20
SUSPECTING THAT THE AUTHORITIES might run checks on hair dye purchases, Bernard made his own coloring from roots and bark. It had a peculiar smell, but women did not find it unattractive. To Bernard, the odor evoked memories of vulture shadows and wolf howls; of cocaine, high explosives, and sure-footed steeds; of the hideout behind the waterfall. As for its effect on others, he’d been asked more than once if he didn’t shampoo with root beer. He limited the dying to the hair on his head and for that reason was careful to make love only in the dark. Once, he spilled the dye all over his shoes. From then on, he dyed with his boots on.
The Twelve Most Famous Redheads:
1. Lucille Ball, comedienne
2. Gen. George Custer, military maverick
3. Lizzie Borden, hatchetwoman
4. Thomas Jefferson, revolutionary
5. Red Skelton, comic
6. George Bernard Shaw, playwright
7. Judas Iscariot, informer
8. Mark Twain, humorist
9. Woody Allen, humorist
10. Margaret Sanger, feminist
11. Edna St. Vincent Millay, libertine poet
12. Bernard Mickey Wrangle, bomber
From this list, the analytically minded might conclude that persons with
red hair tend to be either dangerous or funny. But of the dozen, only one ever had to hide his or her hue. Even Judas flew his natural colors. Judas Iscarrot-top.
How did Bernard feel about dressing his woodpecker strands in suits of crow? From the admiring looks that he aimed at Leigh-Cheri’s crown, and Haleakala’s, a shallow observer might be inclined to compare him to a connoisseur of rubies trapped under a coal chute. Upon more careful examination, however, one would have to report that he took a very nearly delicious pleasure in smuggling his curls about, their blaze concealed from

the cold eye of the law by the thinnest millimeter of pigment.
And, of course, Bernard, as all men, carried around in his trousers the
most renowned redhead of all-characteristically funny and dangerous. 21
ABOARD ALOHA AIRLINES FLIGHT 23, Bernard wasn’t the only admirer of Leigh-Cheri. From the seat in front of her, a young man with a long, wavy beard, aloha shirt, and hibiscus blossoms intertwined in his ponytail had turned around to engage her in conversation. He was on his way to the Care Fest, he said, to teach meditation techniques at a workshop. The young man tried to interest Leigh-Cheri in his program. He offered to give her personal instruction in meditation, free of charge. She seemed to be seriously considering it.
Bernard leaned forward until his freckled chin rested atop Leigh- Cheri’s seat. “Yum,” he said.
The Princess flinched, but did not glance back. The young man in front began showing her his puka shell necklace. While fingering the pukas, he spoke quietly to her of deep relaxation, inner peace, and the wisdom of letting things flow.
“Yum,” repeated Bernard. He said it very close to the royal ear.
This time she spun around. Her expression was indignant. “I beg your pardon.”
Bernard smiled as sweetly as a retarded jack-o’-lantern. “It’s my mantra.”
Leigh-Cheri glowered at him, as only someone of the redheaded persuasion can glower. He was dressed all in black and had bad teeth. He was wearing Donald Duck sunglasses. Kiddie glasses. She turned back to the meditation instructor, who at once ceased scowling at Bernard and gave her a sympathetic look.
“There are only two mantras,” said Bernard. “Yum and yuk. Mine is yum.”
It sounded halfway logical, but the Princess refused to respond. She squeezed Gulietta’s hand. She asked the junior guru in front how meditation could help alleviate suffering in the world.
“Yum,” said Bernard. “Yuu-mmmm.” Leigh-Cheri ignored him. The other passengers regarded him strangely.
“Do you need anything, sir?” asked the stewardess.
Bernard shrugged. He looked out of the window. He looked at the rosy rim of the big volcano. Haleakala-"House of the Sun.” If Haleakala was where the sun called home, what was the moon’s address? Did the moon live

in France on Main Street? 22
IT WAS HALEAKALA, erupting in tandem with a lesser volcano, that created the island of Maui. It must have been a show. The crater was seven and one half miles across, the cone more than ten thousand feet high, yet Haleakala had a presence at which even the most impressive measurements didn’t hint.
Such an eerie, unfamiliar place was Haleakala that there was a tendency to associate it with other worlds, outer spaces. Indeed, an unusually large percentage of visitors who camped there overnight in order to view the famous Haleakala sunrise, the sun awakening in its own bedroom, swore to having seen oddly lighted forms in the sky. To the dormant volcano, with its crumbly cromlechs, its lunar contours, its black and red sands, supernatural properties came to be attributed. Many regarded it a universal center, an intergalactic connecting point, a cosmic beanhill, the earth terminal for spaceships of all degrees of substance and visibility. So many people claimed to have seen UFOs buzzing Haleakala that it turned into a mecca for flying-saucer fans and would-be cosmic cosmopolitans. Individuals, entire cults with outer-space orientations settled in the valleys near the base of the mountain.
When word of the impending Care Fest spread from Lahaina into the Maui interior, the various flying-saucer groups banded together to insist that they be included in the conference. The fact that Timothy Leary had been invited to the Care Fest to present his theories on orbiting space colonies pleased but didn’t placate them. “The future of the earth is bound up with the future of the universe,” they reasoned. Some went so far as to state that the future of the earth was entirely in the hands of superior beings on distant planets. The Care Fest would be a sham if UFO scholars and intermediaries weren’t included, they said.
“The agenda is already set, and it’s crowded as it is,” protested the organizers.
The saucer people didn’t care. They raced their kryptonite engines, billowed their green exhaust. From the thirteenth floor of the Darth Vader Building, communiqués and manifestoes issued.
A compromise was reached. The Maui saucerites were granted use of conference facilities on Sunday, the day prior to the official opening of the Care Fest, the day that Leigh-Cheri arrived in Lahaina. As the Princess and her chaperon checked into the Pioneer Inn, a UFO gathering was already in progress there. “How peculiar,” remarked Leigh-Cheri, noticing the

flowing robes and wide eyes of the delegates. There was no one in the lobby who looked the slightest like Ralph Nader.
What the hell, it was Sunday. Sunday is Sunday, even in Hawaii. No volume of orchid nectar, no wardrobe of o-o plumage could change the color of Sunday from that of . . . buttermilk, toothpaste, Camembert cheese. Leigh-Cheri knew better than to jump to conclusions on a Sunday. After unpacking, she seated herself out on the lanai, where luxuriously awash in tropical twilight, she perused the Sunday edition of the Honolulu Advertiser.
A lanai was a veranda in Hawaii, but Lanai was also the name of one of the smallest of the Hawaiian Islands. The island of Lanai was close to Maui, a sort of veranda of Maui, and was clearly visible from Lahaina. In those days, Lanai was almost entirely in the possession of the Dole Corporation, which planted it in pineapples and limited its visitors, but Lanai hadn’t always been a company island. As a matter of fact, there was a time when it was outlaw territory, a refuge for fugitives. If a Hawaiian lawbreaker could make it to Lanai, he was home free. That was the agreement. Police had voluntarily suspended their authority at the shoreline of Lanai. Moreover, if an escaped prisoner or a culprit fleeing a crime could survive seven years on the island (which had little food or fresh water), charges against him were dropped, and he could return to society a free man.
Maybe that’s why Bernard Mickey Wrangle stood on the Lahaina waterfront staring at Lanai-staring hard, shifting weight from one boot to the other, occasionally saying “yum” under his breath.
The Woodpecker had been a fugitive (this last time) for more than six years. In eleven months, the statute of limitations in his case would expire, and he would become, in the eyes of the law, “free.”
The Woodpecker stared at the former outlaw island until its margins melted like raw sugar into the steeping tea of night. Then he crossed the street to the Pioneer Inn, the restored old whalers’ hotel, where the usual crowd of international beach bums, cool kamaainas, sailboat crewmen, amateur adventurers, itinerant waitresses, students on the metamorphose from Midwest bookworms into South Pacific night owls ("The University of Pineapple is my alma papaya, I graduated mango cum laude."), rock musicians of varying degrees of celebrity and expertise, young divorcées (older ones went to Waikiki), divers (coral, salvage, skin, and muff), puka salesmen, T-shirt air-brushers, and Berkeley radicals with a secret romantic streak made themselves at home, coming and going, flirting and hustling, posing and preening, scheming and letting off steam, a gin or rum never far from the lips, a fortune, a nirvana, or a revolution always just out of reach.

Mingling with the regulars on this Sunday evening were freshly arrived Care Fest delegates, famous and unknown; plus a man and woman from the planet Argon who had slipped away from the UFO conference to have a piña colada. Plus the Woodpecker.
The Woodpecker did tequila drink. The Pioneer bar was so crowded that much dry time elapsed between waiter’s visits, so the Woodpecker ordered triples. Lanai, that arid sanctuary, evidently had stimulated his thirst buds. Slurping his tequilas with a noise that sounded not dissimilar to “yum,” he scanned the room in vain for a glimpse of long red hair and felt the seven sticks of explosive pressing, almost erotically, against the freckles of his flesh.
Now, tequila may be the favored beverage of outlaws, but that doesn’t mean it gives them preferential treatment. In fact, tequila probably had betrayed as many outlaws as has the central nervous system and dissatisfied wives. Tequila, scorpion honey, harsh dew of the doglands, essence of Aztec, crema de cacti; tequila, oily and thermal like the sun in solution; tequila, liquid geometry of passion; Tequila, the buzzard god who copulates in midair with the ascending souls of dying virgins; tequila, firebug in the house of good taste; O tequila, savage water of sorcery, what confusion and mischief your sly, rebellious drops do generate!
Without doubt, it was the tequila that made Bernard impatient, that befuddled him into mistaking the UFO conference for the Geo-Therapy Care Fest.
As a consequence, the saucer conference was blown ass over teacup.
23
EVEN WHEN INTOXICATED, Bernard Mickey Wrangle was a master
of blast. He planted the dynamite in such a place and in such a way (breaking four sticks in half, then laying them outside the walls at twenty- foot intervals) that the Pioneer Inn shook like a wet mutt; every window in one end of it shattered, wallboards cracked, lighting fixtures and potted plants plummeted to the meeting hall floor, smoke and dust roiled for half an hour, and saucerites, scorched and scratched, scattered as if the Jewish Mother Ship had landed in their midst, spraying scalding jets of chicken soup-yet not one person was seriously hurt.
On one hand, it was a masterpiece of delicate dynamiting, on the other a faux pas. When he awoke Monday morning, much to his hangover’s delight (a hangover without a head to torment is like a philanthropist without an institution to endow), and learned that he’d dropped his load in the wrong bin, the sheepish expression of the premature ejaculator crossed his face.

At breakfast, where, hoping to avoid attention, he tried to conceal from his fellow diners that he was pouring beer over his Wheaties, he said to himself, “Yikes.” Then he said “Yikes” again, not pausing to ponder that there might be three mantras. “Yikes, that was close. Of course, close calls are the only calls an outlaw should accept, but O my Woodpecker, that business last night bordered on the crazed. Considering the tequila level of my gorge and the number of human coconuts that hula around Lahaina at every hour of the clock, it’s a miracle I wasn’t seen.”
Yes, even in the last quarter of the twentieth century miracles occurred- although this was not one of them. There was a witness to Bernard’s deed. Old Gulietta had watched the whole thing.
24
TO GULIETTA, indoor plumbing was the devil’s device. Of all the follies of the modern world, that one struck her as most unnecessary. There was something unnatural, foolish, and a little filthy about going indoors. On the European estates where she was reared, it was common practice for servant girls to lift their skirts outside. Gulietta had seen no reason to alter her habits in Seattle. Despite the difficulty there of doing one’s natural duty without being rained upon or receiving from a blackberry bramble a bite as sharp as hemorrhoids, she felt comfortable-happy, even-when she could squat in fresh air. Besides, it was an opportune way to spy frogs.
Leaving Leigh-Cheri in their room, pouring over programs and press releases, the old woman had gone out looking for a sensible spot to void her bladder. The soft, warm, Sweet Lelani night seemed perfectly suited for that. The Pioneer Inn, unfortunately, was in downtown Lahaina and had no grounds. It had a courtyard, however, which at 11:00 p.m. on Sunday had been fairly deserted, so Gulietta had slipped into the banana trees next to a wall and dropped her drawers.
Before she could direct a stream, Bernard had slipped into the foliage not twenty feet from her. She thought he’d come for a piss as well, and that was fine with her, but the length of the thing he pulled out of his jeans almost made her gasp. When he snapped it in half, she did gasp.
She was small. She knew how to sit very still. Like a toad. Undetected, holding her water, she had watched the whole thing. After the fuse was lit, the Woodpecker flew. Yanking up her bloomers, Gulietta fled, too. She returned to the room just as the explosion sounded. Suddenly, she knew what it was like to pee indoors.
25
IN THE WORLD according to the positivist, the inspiring thing about

scrambled eggs is that any way you turn them they’re sunny side up. In the world according to the existentialist, the hopeless thing about scrambled eggs is that any way you turn them they’re scrambled. In the world according to the outlaw, it was Wheaties-with-beer for breakfast, and who cared which crossed the road first, the chicken or the egg. But any way you turned the Geo-Therapy Care Fest, you had to notice that Bernard’s blast had indirectly scrambled it.
With Pioneer Inn’s meeting hall in bad state of repair, with cops, newspeople, and curiosity-seekers milling around the place like bargain- minded lemmings at a suicide sale, and with the hotel management indulging a nasty attack of nerves, conference organizers spent all of Monday attempting to relocate. They made a halfhearted effort to obtain space at one or another of the luxury hotels a few miles up the coast at Kaanapali and were partially relieved to learn that there wasn’t room. Old, wooden, and South Sea funky, the Pioneer Inn had been far better suited to the sensibilities of the Care Fest. This was, in truth, the first time since its opening in 1901 that the Pioneer was to host a formal convention, a fact that appealed to the Care Fest staff but an error the inn was not likely to repeat.
At last, on Tuesday, Lahaina officials granted permission for the world rescuers to convene under the giant banyan tree whose branches covered three-quarters of an acre in the city park. Terrific. Many considered this an even more appropriate site than the Pioneer Inn, which, after all, was built to cater originally to the whaling trade, an irony not lost on those Care Festers to whom preservation of whales and dolphins was an important and rather emotional goal. By the time anything could get organized beneath the banyan, however, it was already Wednesday, the week was half-shot, and a number of the luminaries who were to address the gathering had left or had decided not to attend. Many simply couldn’t adjust their busy schedules to the amended program; a few were put off by the UFO delegates (including the visiting couple from Argon) who remained on the scene, singed and bruised, babbling rumors of the most astonishing conspiracies and plots; while others were worried about the possibility of further explosions, a not unreasonable concern considering that the Woodpecker was still on Maui with three sticks of dynamite left in his clothes.
26
FOR HER PART, Princess Leigh-Cheri spent many hours dragging a freshly sunburned finger up and down the list of scheduled speakers-Dick Gregory, Marshall McLuhan, Michio Kushi, Laura Huxley, Ram Dass, David Brower, John Lilly, Murray Gell-Mann, Joseph Campbell, Elizabeth

Kübler-Ross, Marcel Marceau, et al-wondering who would or would not show.
By all rights, the Princess should have been enjoying her beloved Hawaii, Care Fest or no, but it was Gulietta who romped in the surf while her young mistress sat in the shade (redheads do burn easily) of this or that koa tree, checking and rechecking lists and pouting like the koa itself, whose leaves resemble lips or the crescents of moon. There was one black cloud in all the Hawaiian Islands, and it was parked over her head. She was disappointed, to say the least, by the scrambling of the Care Fest, and considering her disappointments of the past year, she was beginning to suspect that she might be jinxed. She wondered if Gulietta hadn’t been bringing that frog along to protect her.
“Goddamn it,” she said. “A princess deserves better than this.”
As if to sandpaper her burn, an oddly beautiful woman in a turban and robe had stopped her in the lobby to inform her (above the noise of workmen busily replacing window glass) that on the planet Argon redheads were considered evil and that if she had any plans for space travel, she’d better change her ways. “Red hair is caused by sugar and lust,” the woman, who was blonde, confided. “Highly evolved beings do not indulge in sugar and lust.” It was a rude thing to say, particularly in Hawaii where sugar and lust surpassed even pineapples and marijuana as cash crops. And since Leigh-Cheri only recently had begun to eliminate those very sweets and meats from her life-without any thought to her status on Argon-the woman’s accusations made her defensive and caused an unreasonable guilt to darken the hue of her gloom. She rolled around paradise like four bald tires on an ambulance.
Late Tuesday afternoon there occurred three events to retread her mood. One, Ralph Nader checked into the Pioneer Inn, announcing that he would speak the next evening as scheduled, in Banyan Park. Two, a reporter from People magazine asked her for an interview, and for the first time, she felt she had something to say to those media representatives who had tried off and on for years to make some kind of “story” out of her. Three, Gulietta, looking as skinny and blue as a jailhouse tattoo as she bounded from the ever-chill ocean in her bikini, pointed out to her a man on the beach and through gesture and omomatopoeia ("boom-boom” is “boom-boom” in any land, dynamite speaks a universal lingo) identified him as the bomber.
The Princess didn’t hesitate. She walked right up to the man and placed him under citizen’s arrest.

27
LITTLE DID LEIGH-CHERI know that she was arresting a man whom half a dozen American sheriffs had sworn on family Bibles to see dead, that she had nabbed a fugitive who had eluded the greediest nets of the FBI for a decade, all told, although it must be admitted that in recent years, with the social climate altered and Bernard inactive, interest in his capture had waned.
Leigh-Cheri had heard of the Woodpecker, of course, but in the days when he was making headlines by blowing up draft boards and induction centers, the last days of the Vietnam War, she’d been a schoolgirl, picking blackberries, cuddling teddy bears, listening to a certain bedtime story, yellowing her nose with buttercups. Curiously excited by an enema that Gulietta had administered to her on Queen Tilli’s orders, Leigh-Cheri had masturbated for the first time on the very evening of Bernard’s most infamous exploit, and the confusing pleasure of secret fingering-the fresh flush that heated her cheeks, the vague mental images of nasty games with boys, the sticky dew that smelled of frog water and clung like prehensile pearls to the thickening fuzz around her peachfish-this mysterious and shaming little ache of ecstasy eclipsed the less personal events of the day, including the news that the notorious Woodpecker had demolished an entire building on the campus of a large Midwestern university.
Bernard Mickey Wrangle had sneaked into Madison, Wisconsin, in the deep of night. His hair was red then, red being the color of emergency and roses; red being the prelate’s top and the baboon’s bottom; red being the blood’s color, jelly’s color; red maddening the bull, red bringing the bull down; red being the color of valentines, of left-handedness, and of a small princess’s newfound guilty hobby. His hair was red, his cowboy boots muddy, his heart a hive of musical bees.
Aided and abetted by the Woodpecker Gang, he blew up the chemistry building at the University of Wisconsin. Allegedly, work performed in that building was helpful to the war the United States government was then waging in Southeast Asia. The explosion occurred at three o’clock in the morning. The building was supposed to have been unoccupied. Unfortunately, a graduate student was in one of the laboratories, completing research that was to lead to his doctorate.
The diligent student was found in the rubble. Not all of him, but enough to matter. Confined to a wheelchair, he became a stereo jockey in a Milwaukee disco, trading snappy patter with good-timing office workers and playing Barry White records as if he believed in them. He might have

been a decent scientist. His project, which was obliterated by the blast, was the perfection of an oral contraceptive for men.
Bernard made it safely back to the West. Only the radio news reports followed him to the hideout behind the waterfall. For once, the reports failed to entertain him. “I took a man’s legs,” he said to Montana Judy. “I took his manhood, I took his memory, and I took his career. Worse, I took his wife, who split when he ran out of manhood and career. Worse still, I might have spoiled chances for a male pill. Yikes. I’ve got to pay. I deserve to pay. But I’ll pay in my way, not society’s. As bad as I am, there isn’t a judge who’s good enough to sentence me.”
Another penitent might have joined a grubby religious cult or stood in a dark alley waiting for someone to come along and knock him in the head. As his payment, Bernard embarked on a chemical research project of his own. He tracked down, investigated, and tested various esoteric methods of birth control. “Who knows,” he told Montana Judy, “maybe I’ll come up with something better than that poor bozo’s pill.”
In herbal literature, it is written that comfrey is good for sprains and fit root for spasms; cascara will end constipation, wild cherry restore loss of speech; for nosebleed, buckthorn is recommended, and for pneumonia, try skunk cabbage. If you are stricken with sexual desire, the cure prescribed is lily root, and assuming that lily root fails, is unavailable, or is forsaken in the delirium of the illness, squaw vine, spikenard, and raspberry leaves all make childbirth a little easier. Western herbal literature is oddly lacking in contraceptive advice, Bernard discovered. Oddly lacking. He suspected tampering by the Church, but Bernard suspected the Church of a great many things.
In the anthropological texts that he pilfered from public libraries on both sides of the Rockies, it was told how the influence of tree spirits and water nymphs would promote fecundity, and though Bernard did not doubt that-female members of the Woodpecker Gang demonstrated a decided tendency toward fecundity out there in the wilderness where tree spirits abounded-he wondered where the deities were who guarded against the knock-up. The Eskimo of the Bering Strait, the Huichol of Mexico, the Nishinam Indians of California, the Caffre tribes of South Africa, the Basuto, the Maori, and the Anno all made dolls in the likeness of the infant that was wanted, and that act of homeopathic magic brought pregnancy galloping. But what image could be fashioned to hold would-be embryos at bay? A decoction of wasp’s nest was administered internally to Lkungen brides to make them as prolific as insects. How much of a rhinoceros would

a bride have to eat in order to emulate that animal’s habit of infrequent offspring?
In ancient times, when a people’s success-its survival, perhaps-depended upon steady multiplication, all available magic was marshaled in the promotion of fertility. It was only after the Industrial Revolution that some deterrent to fertility gradually began to become widely desirable (desirable for whole societies rather than the occasional unlucky lovers), and by the last quarter of the twentieth century, when overpopulation was a major threat to the planet, there was no longer any magic to command. Or was there? Maybe in Asia . . .
Bernard saw on television, in a bar in Boulder, on a program called “You Asked for It,” some remarkable documentary footage. There was a village somewhere in India on the outskirts of which a large albino cobra lived in the rocks. For years that snake had played a starring role in a unique fertility rite. The barren women of the village had to make a pilgrimage to the white cobra’s den. There they had to kiss him-on top of his head. Yet it wasn’t enough to kiss him. To guarantee conception, they had to kiss the cobra twice. The village lost a good many of its infertile women. Bernard was fascinated by that powerful scene. He thought it would make a great breath-mint commercial. You know: “If she kisses you once, will she kiss you again?” Bernard mailed a suggestion to the Certs company. Certs responded that his judgment was questionable, not to mention his taste. Montana Judy said the same.
From India, however, he gathered information that a tea brewed from pennyroyal and myrrh would interfere with conception up to seven days after the act. He went at once to an herb shop in Missoula and shoplifted the ingredients. East Indian sources also supplied the intelligence that regular ingestion of carrot seed was a birth control method whose effectiveness had been proven by countless generations of Hindu women. Reference to “countless generations” did not reassure him, but he acquired carrot seeds from a farmer’s supply store near Billings, and was damn near caught in the process. Obtaining the astringent ingredients used in She-link, the traditional Chinese herbal contraceptive, further taxed the Woodpecker’s ingenuity, for preparation of She-link required chi je date, She-link flower, ling-shook root, and gomsomchu leaf: the Four Immortals, for God’s sake. Naturally, the Food and Drug Administration frowned upon the introduction of the She-link formula to America. Bernard was forced to jimmy the locks of Chinese doctors as far west as San Francisco to get his freckled paws on some ling-shook.

Even so,she abandoned She-link as abruptly as carrot seeds and pennyroyal when he learned of lunaception. A drugless method of pinpointing ovulation by training women to resynchronize their cycles with those of the moon, lunaception landed like an astronaut on the green cheese of Bernard’s imagination. Everything about it sounded right to him, especially its lunar foundation. Outlaws, like lovers, poets, and tubercular composers who cough blood onto piano keys, do their finest work in the slippery rays of the moon Mythologically, woodpeckers are connected to Mars, the redheaded planet, but the Woodpecker, more so than any delegate to the aborted UFO convention, had a private line to the moon.
On second thought, everything about lunaception didn’t please Bernard. Lunaception, as did She-link, pennyroyal, and carrot seeds, placed the burden of responsibility for birth control on the woman. Thus, for all of its potential effectiveness, it failed to completely compensate for the loss of the male pill. If Bernard was bothered by that, Montana Judy was bothered more. Understandably, Bernard had scant access to subjects for contraceptive testing. Who was going to trust an amateur gynecologist? Particularly one whose credentials included the Ten Most Wanted list.
Montana Judy grew sick of being a guinea pig for Bernard’s experiments. And she was unrelieved when he expanded his testing to include her younger sisters, the twins: Montana Molly and Montana Polly. Bernard, you see, personally supplied and delivered the squirmy sauce that was the activating agent in the tests. Montana Judy decided that Bernard should pay his debt to society in a more conventional fashion. Montana Judy turned him in.
That book that judges are said to throw at offenders (the rule book, presumably; a Russian novel, possibly; no elegant volume of verse, certainly) was hurled like a bean ball at the red bean of Bernard Mickey Wrangle. He was sentenced to thirty years. The last quarter of the twentieth century might be destined to limp into history, but at least there’d be no Woodpecker around to drill holes in its crutches.
Aware of his reputation for exits, the federal penitentiary at McNeil Island, Washington, locked him up quite tight. It took him more than a year to blow out.
In his absence, the world had changed. It was only fair. Bernard himself had changed. For example, observation of his colleagues in prison had convinced him that thievery, inspired by the basest human impulses, was unbecoming to an outlaw. Let businessmen and riffraff rob and cheat. He vowed never to steal again, unless it was necessary. He also vowed to behave

more sensitively toward women, beginning with Montana Judy, could he find her. He couldn’t. She had joined a gang of equality-minded women that spent its evenings terrorizing men, equally, regardless of their degrees of guilt or innocence. These women would accept men only as subservient flunkies, and while Bernard knew only too well that that was how many men had treated many women for many centuries, he couldn’t see a mere reversal of rotten roles as being very equalizing or very helpful to anyone. Moreover, he was nobody’s flunky. Not even the moon’s. Montana Polly had joined the same mob of avengers. Montana Molly was enrolled in Spokane Success, a secretarial college. The Woodpecker Gang had disbanded. Four former members were in jail. One had been clubbed to death with folding chairs by members of an American Legion post in Jackson Hole. Three had embraced conventional politics and were working within the system to alter the system. One was selling real estate and had contracted Jesus Christ as his personal savior. Willie the Wetback was studying pre-law at Stanford. He was in a fraternity. Starving his nose, although he still smoked grass occasionally. He wanted to work for Nader one day. The world had changed.
Bernard was perplexed. He missed the thrills, chills, and spills. Just because the war was over did that mean everybody had to stop having fun?
Thanks to Montana Judy, the hideout behind the waterfall was hot. Bernard went underground in Seattle. He got a job mixing drinks in a bar frequented by off-duty policemen. Some nights there were dozens of cops in the place. Their presence sprinkled a little spice on his life. Added a tiny tickle of amusement. He poured cheap bourbon. And bided his time.
A writer published an open letter to Bernard in a leading liberal periodical. He requested an interview. Utmost secrecy was sworn. It was on the level. The writer was a man of proven courage and integrity. The writer wanted amnesty for dissidents such as Bernard. He said that Bernard had suffered enough. He wrote that living underground was no less punishing than prison. “A person underground exists in a state of controlled schizophrenia,” he wrote. “Terror never slackens.” The journalist considered Bernard a victim of the Vietnam War. The fact that he had acted against the government’s interests instead of in them was immaterial, the writer said. The socio-political realities that drove Bernard to risk his life bombing induction centers were essentially the same as those that led other young men to risk theirs trading shots in rice paddies. As a fugitive, on the run, living in disguise and fear, Bernard was no less a casualty than those poor veterans who had left prime cuts from their physiques to decay

in Da Nang and Hue. Ha ha.
That’s how Bernard’s infamous response began.
“Ha ha.
“Victim? The difference between a criminal and an outlaw is that while
criminals frequently are victims, outlaws never are. Indeed, the first step toward becoming a true outlaw is the refusal to be victimized.
“All people who live subject to other people’s laws are victims. People who break laws out of greed, frustration, or vengeance are victims. People who overturn laws in order to replace them with their own laws are victims. (I am speaking here of revolutionaries.) We outlaws, however, live beyond the law. We don’t merely live beyond the letter of the law-many businessmen, most politicians, and all cops do that-we live beyond the spirit of the law. In a sense, then, we live beyond society. Have we a common goal, that goal is to turn the tables on the nature of society. When we succeed, we raise the exhilaration content of the universe. We even raise it a little bit when we fail.
“Victim? I deplored the ugliness of the Vietnam War. But what I deplored, others have deplored before me. When war turns whole populations into sleepwalkers, outlaws don’t join forces with alarm clocks. Outlaws, like poets, rearrange the nightmare. It is elating work. The years of the war were the most glorious of my life. I wasn’t risking my skin to protest a war. I risked my skin for fun. For beauty!
“I love the magic of TNT. How eloquently it speaks! Its resounding rumble, its clap, its quack is scarcely less deep than the passionate moan of the Earth herself. A well-timed series of detonations is like a choir of quakes. For all of its fluent resonance, a bomb says only one word-’Surprise!’-and then applauds itself. I love the hot hands of explosion. I love a breeze perfumed with the devil smell of powder (so close in its effect to the angel smell of sex). I love the way that architecture, under the impetus of dynamite, dissolves almost in slow motion, crumbling delicately, shedding bricks like feathers, corners melting, grim facades breaking into grins, supports shrugging and calling it a day, tons of totalitarian dreck washing away in the wake of a circular tsunami of air. I love that precious portion of a second when window glass becomes elastic and bulges out like bubble gum before popping. I love public buildings made public at last, doors flung open to the citizens, to the creatures, to the universe. Baby, come on in! And I love the final snuff of smoke.
“Yes, and I love the trite mythos of the outlaw. I love the self-conscious

romanticism of the outlaw. I love the black wardrobe of the outlaw. I love the fey smile of the outlaw. I love the tequila of the outlaw and the beans of the outlaw. I love the way respectable men sneer and say ’outlaw.’ I love the way young women palpitate and say rlquo;outlaw.’ The outlaw boat sails against the flow, and I love it. Outlaws toilet where badgers toilet, and I love it. All outlaws are photogenic, and I love that. ’When freedom is outlawed, only outlaws will be free’: that’s a graffito seen in Anacortes, and I love that. There are outlaw maps that lead to outlaw treasures, and I love those maps especially. Unwilling to wait for mankind to improve, the outlaw lives as if that day were here, and I love that most of all.
“Victim? Your letter reminded the Woodpecker that he is a Woodpecker blessed. Your sympathies for my loneliness, tension, and disturbing fluctuations in identity have some basis in fact and are humbly appreciated. But do not be misled. I am the happiest man in America. In my bartender’s pockets I still carry, out of habit, wooden matches. As long as there are matches, there will be fuses. As long as there are fuses, no walls are safe. As long as every wall is threatened, the world can happen. Outlaws are can openers in the supermarket of life.”
28
WAS THERE ACTUALLY an era so silly that its maidens would drop a handkerchief-a purely ornamental handkerchief, we may assume; silken, lace-trimmed, nowhere upon its perfumed surface the faintest fresco of snot-in order to make the acquaintance of the gentleman bound to retrieve it? Myth or no, it was with a studied carelessness akin to scented hankie bait that the phrase “in my bartender’s pockets” was dropped by Bernard upon the verbal promenade of his reply to the well-meaning journalist. Bernard was giving his pursuers a little hint. Just to make things more interesting.
The hint may have been taken, but it failed to lead the pack to his lair. Although there were several threatening moments, such as the night a drunk doused him with beer, causing his dye to run in the presence of twenty policemen, Bernard’s cover held. As years went by and matchsticks yellowed and splintered in his pockets, he was sustained in his inactivity by thoughts of what fun it would be when the statute of limitations expired and he could go flamboyantly public, rub their noses in it. There came an occasion, however, when he felt compelled to speak, or rather, to let dynamite speak for him. And now, after a slight misfire, he found himself, with but eleven months left on the fugitive calendar, arrested.
Arrested by Her Royal Highness, Princess Leigh-Cheri Furstenberg- Barcalona, deposed cheerleader, environmentalist without portfolio, blue-

eyed altruist, grapefruit-breasted celibate, would-be sovereign of Mu, the only woman the Woodpecker had ever met whose hair burned as brightly at his once had.
He would not go quietly.
29
"SO IT’S YOU. I might have guessed it was you."
“I’m flattered that you remember me.”
“The man who goes ’yum’-”
“Only at appropriate moments.”
“-and blows up hotels and disrupts the most important meeting of minds
since God knows when.”
“This meeting is more important. This meeting between you and me.
Let’s retire somewhere for a drink.”
“Don’t be ridiculous. You’re under arrest. I’m taking you straight to the
police.”
“I must warn you: I won’t go quietly. Criminals, because they’re
plagued with guilt, often will surrender and go quietly. Outlaws, because they’re pure, never will.”
As in a symphony the brass may suddenly blare and drown out the woodwinds and strings, so fear suddenly blared in Leigh-Cheri, drowning out the anger and frustration that in the opening bars of this concerto of confrontation had served her so well. She glanced around the beach, looking for assistance. Some young men, blonde as shampoo commercials, brown- skinned as turds, noticed her looking and waved at her.
“Don’t expect any help from those beach boys. They’re only interested in snatch and surf. Besides, they’d be no threat to me. I have a black belt in haiku. And a black vest in the cleaners. This morning I met a visitor from the planet Argon. She told me I have an aura like burnt rubber. Thanking her, I said black was my favorite color. Aside from red.”
“So you met her, too.” Leigh-Cheri didn’t know what else to say. For the first time, she noticed that he was wearing black swim trunks. And on his feet black thongs. Where does one buy black thongs? She felt disoriented. Goose bumps popped up in her sunburn, making her hide resemble a bird’s-eye view of bloody cobblestones. She felt like a street in the French Revolution. She turned to the hag in the bikini. “Gulietta, get the police,” she ordered, knowing full well that the police were all in town trying to solve the case of the bombed hotel. Gulietta couldn’t understand her, anyway.
“There’s nothing to worry about. I won’t hurt you. I’m delighted that

we’re getting to be friends. I would have left Maui right after the boom- boom"-he grinned at Gulietta-"if it hadn’t been for you.”
It was true. An old pal of his from the mainland, now a marijuana planter on the Kona coast, had agreed in advance to whisk Bernard to Honolulu aboard his smuggler’s sloop. Even though the bombing was premature, the sloop could have sailed Monday morning had Bernard desired.
“I don’t get it. You stayed because of me?”
“Because of you, babe. And because I have some blasting powder that I haven’t used yet.”
“What?” She laughed in disbelief. “I can’t trust my ears. You- maniac!""Mister maniac.”
“You want to blow up something else?”
“What I want is to buy you a drink.”
“Buy me a drink?”
“A piña tequila or a tequila tai. If you’re old enough, that is. We
wouldn’t want to break the law.”
“I’ll bet I’m as old as you are.”
“I’m older than Sanskrit.”
“Well, I was a waitress at the Last Supper.”
“I’m so old I remember when McDonald’s had only sold a hundred
burgers.” “You win.”
“Then I can buy you a drink?” “What’s your name?” “Bernard.”
“Bernard what?”
“Bernard Maniac.”
“Listen, Mr. Maniac-”
“I’m listening to nothing unless I’m sitting across a table from you at the
Lahaina Broiler. Your grandmother can come, too, although frankly I’m a bit shocked by the extent to which her bathing attire reveals her charms.”
“Well,” she said. She paused. She thought it best to humor him. It’d be easier to raise help in town than out there on the beach. And she must admit that despite the dental neglect it disclosed, he had a wonderful smile. “Well, I do need to get out of the sun. Redheads burn easily.”
“I know,” he said. “I know.”
30
ON THE MAINLAND, a rain was falling. The famous Seattle rain. The

thin, gray rain that toadstools love. The persistent rain that knows every hidden entrance into collar and shopping bag. The quiet rain that can rust a tin roof without the tin roof making a sound in protest. The shamanic rain that feeds the imagination. The rain that seems actually a secret language, whispering, like the ecstasy of primitives, of the essence of things.
The rain enveloped the house-the house that King Max had come to call Fort Blackberry-like a hair spray for jellyfish. Inside, the King and his Queen struggled with an electric dishwasher. They couldn’t get it to function. Neither a sherry glass nor a teaspoon had been cleaned in the three days of Gulietta’s absence. Chuck might have come to the rescue, but as misfortune would have it, Chuck had been called into Seattle on Monday evening and had not returned. An ill sister was the reason given, but surely it was quite another matter. There was unrest in the Furstenberg-Barcalona homeland. Revolution was in the air. Convinced that the royal family was involved, Washington wanted to tighten security. Particularly close tabs on King Max was what the CIA had in mind. The CIA primed Chuck with a small bonus. (He would lose every cent when Max drew an inside straight to his two pairs.)
As they fiddled with the dishwasher, Max and Tilli plotted and schemed.
“She’ll be twenty in April,” said Max. “A year after that, she can marry. I say the sooner we get a suitor in the lineup the better our odds.”
“Ja,” said Tilli. “Ja, da, si. Ve know thees already a hundred times. But dat doesn’t mean ve got to rush her into some flake.”
“Into what?”
“A flake. A flaky guy. Like zee president’s son. He ees loco gringo.” “If you’re insinuating that that kid has got two strikes and no balls,
you’re probably correct. My point is, we can’t sit around here waiting for eligible Europeans to come out picking blackberries. Now, Idaj Fizel’s middle boy owns part interest in an NBA club. He’s in Seattle every time his team plays the Sonics. I think I can arrange a meeting.”
“Oui, but he ees not royalty.”
“No, he’s richer and more powerful than that.”
“Arab,” moaned Tilli. “Ein Arab. Oh-Oh, spaghetti-o.”
The dishwasher remained inactive. It might as well have gone along to
Maui. The frog could have turned it into a condominium. The royal couple huffed and puffed over it. Once it sounded as if it had begun to work, but it was merely Max’s valve that was clanging. When for the third or fourth time she accidentally banged her Chihuahua’s head against its lid, Tilli turned her majestic back on it.

King Max gathered up the dirty dishes. He transported them into the backyard. “We’ll let the rain wash them,” he said. “It ought to be good for something.”
Actually, the rain has many uses. It prevents the blood and the sea from becoming too salty. It administers knockout drops to unruly violets. It manufactures the ladder that neon climbs to the moon. A seeker can go into the Great Northwest rain and bring back the Name he needs. And, indeed, the rain pried flecks of egg yolk and gravy from the crest, from the honor point, from the fess point, from the nombril of the Furstenberg-Barcalona heraldic dinner plates. When, however, Max returned the next morning to fetch the dishes, half of them were missing. The Queen put the blame on tramps or gypsies. Max knew that the blackberries had gotten them.
As they dined on canned stroganoff from paper plates, Tilli said to Max, “I weesh Leigh-Cheri vas only here.”
But the King said, “Maybe it’s best she’s away while we recruit a suitor. At any rate, we can rest assured she’s in good hands in Hawaii.”
31
"I’VE NEVER BEEN KISSED by a man in Donald Duck sunglasses before,” said Leigh-Cheri.
“I apologize,” said Bernard. “I’m sorry about the Donald Duck sunglasses. They ought to be Woody Woodpecker sunglasses, but nobody makes Woody Woodpecker sunglasses.”
The Princess didn’t know what he was talking about. She didn’t really care. She was on her third tequila mockingbird, he on his fourth. They were floating in that blissful phase that characterizes religious transcendence and the onset of alcohol poisoning. Gulietta had turned her back on them and was watching the sunset. Some chaperon.
“Also, I don’t normally kiss men who smoke,” announced Leigh-Cheri. “Kissing a smoker is like licking an ashtray.”
“So I’ve heard. I’ve also heard that kissing a person who’s self-righteous and intolerant is like licking a mongoose’s ass.”
“I’m not a mongoose’s ass!”
“And I’m not an ashtray.” Removing the unopened pack of Camels from his shirt pocket, he tossed them over his shoulder. “I only smoke when I’m locked up. In jail, a cigarette can be a friend. Otherwise, my Camels are just a front. It’s an excuse for carrying matches.”
“Are you saying what I think you’re saying?”
“I’m saying more than I should be saying. I think you put something in my drink to make me talkative.”

“I think you put something in my drink to make me kissative.” They kissed. And giggled like cartoon mice.
“What time is it?” asked Leigh-Cheri.
“Why? The police station is open all night.”
“I have an appointment with People magazine. At first, I was scared, but now it seems funny. Everything seems funny. Even you seem funny.” She pinched the end of his nose as he leaned over to kiss her again. She looked around the room for a clock, but the lounge at the Lahaina Broiler is noted for its absence of walls. The clocks of the trees had too many hands, and the ocean was on moon time. If Bernard had his way, she’d be on moon time, too.
“When are you turning me in?”
“When you stop kissing me.”
“In that case I’m a free man forever.”
“Don’t count on it.”
She meant that. But this time when he kissed her, his astonishingly
resourceful tongue managed to break through the heroic barricade that her teeth had heretofore formed. There was a clean clink of enamel against enamel, an eruption of hot saliva as his tongue made a whirlwind tour of her oral hollow. A sudden jolt shot through the peachfish, fuzz and fin, and inside her No Nukes T-shirt her nipples became as hard as nuggets of plutonium.
“Jesus,” thought Leigh-Cheri, “how can men be such lummoxes, such wads of Juicy Fruit on the soles of our ballet slippers and still feel so good? Especially this one. This mad bomber.”
She pulled away. With sunburned knuckles, she wiped a string of spittle- his? hers? José Cuervo’s-from her chin. She asked a passing waitress for the time. She was late.
“I’ve got to go.”
“How about dinner after your interview? There’s a delicious fish called mahi mahi. The fish so nice they named it twice. Isn’t it charming the way Polynesians double up their language. I’d like to keep a tête-à-tête in Pago Pago, but I’m afraid I’d contract beriberi.”
“Huh-uh, huh-uh,” said the Princess. “No din-din, no din-din.” “Tomorrow?”
“I’ll be at the Care Fest all day.”
“Tomorrow night?”
“Ralph Nader is speaking tomorrow night. I wouldn’t miss that for all the mahi mahi on Maui Maui. Besides, you may be in jail tomorrow night.

Maybe you better get your pack of Camels back.”
“You’re turning me in, then?”
“I don’t know. It depends. Are you really going to use the rest of your
dynamite?” “It’s likely.”
“Why?”
“Because that’s what I do.”
“But the UFO conference is over.”
“I didn’t come here to bomb the UFO conference. That was a mistake. I
came here to bomb the Care Fest.”
“You what?” She felt a bomb go off in her.
“Boom-boom Care Fest,” he said. He poured tequila through the crack
of his grin.
Abruptly, she stood. “You must be crazy,” she said. “You must really be
fucking insane.” She yanked Gulietta away from the sunset and made for the street.
“You’re turning me in, then?”
“You’re damned right I am,” she said.
32
THE IDEA FOR THE MONARCHY of Mu had come to Leigh-Cheri on
Maui. It visited her unexpectedly while she sat in koa shade watching Gulietta play octogenarian mermaid and worrying about what she might possibly say to People magazine that was neither a paraphrase of Care Fest brochures nor a violation of the Furstenberg-Barcalona code. At some moment it occurred to her that there was a fair amount of unemployed royalty in the world, royals whose thrones had gone the way of war or political upheaval, just as her family’s had, and that these persons, although they’d been bred to lead, to preside, or at least to symbolize, were living for the most part the lives of the idle rich.
For example, the comte de Paris, pretender to the French throne, had eleven children who dabbled in elegant pursuits, such as publishing an art magazine (the duke of Orléans) and running a painting gallery (Prince Thibaut). In Brazil, there were among the royal Orleans Braganza family no fewer than eighteen young cousins with time, energy, and money. Otto von Hapsburg, entitled to be emperor were there any longer an Austrian Empire, had seven sons and daughters riding to the hounds of dilettante culture. Italy’s Prince Enrico D’Assia and Prince Amedeo Savoy managed the family holdings and shared Queen Tilli’s devotion to opera. To the list could be added Yugoslavia’s Prince Alexander, King Leka I of Albania (a

relative of hers), and Japan’s imperial family, among others.
Since deposed royalty no longer had individual kingdoms to serve, why
not band together to serve the world? The earth could be their kingdom. And they could combine their talents and skills, their illustrious names and considerable wealth (the Furstenberg-Barcalona clan was by far the poorest of the lot), their influence and glamour in a royal crusade on behalf of ecology, conservation, and preservation; on behalf of the sweet kingdom of Earth. They would aim to be efficient and effective. They would, of course, be celebrated. And if it was crowns they wanted, she’d supply them with crowns. Collectively, they would be known as the monarchy of Mu, after the lost continent, the mother island; the homeland of sing-song, whose fragrant temples drowned one day in the sea. Each member of the monarchy would be equally a ruler of Mu, each sovereign in a nation without boundaries.
“Since the Hawaiian Islands are tips of the drowned peaks of Mu,” explained Leigh-Cheri, “the monarchy should consider setting up headquarters, court, if you will, in Hawaii, perhaps right here in Lahaina, because Lahaina was the royal capital of old Hawaii and is no stranger to the privileges of queens and kings.”
“That’s a fascinating idea,” gushed Reed Jarvis, the reporter from People. Indeed, Jarvis was pleased. The monarchy of Mu concept gave him a hard kernel of news, a nucleus of serious purpose around which to shape his confection. Now he could layer the goo. On to the human interest stuff- "What was it like for you, a blue-blooded princess, to grow up in a drafty old house in Washington State, attending public schools, becoming a cheerleader?"-and on, farther, to the subjects in which editors and readers of celebrity magazines were almost exclusively interested: money and sex.
“Are you ever bitter about the loss of your family fortune?”
“That was a long time ago. Before I was born. There are more important things than fortunes.”
“Who is your current boy friend? Is there any one beau who is special?” “I have no boy friends.”
“None?”
“None.”
“But, my dear, you’re so attractive and intelligent. Have you no love life?”
“Who does have a love life anymore? These days people have sex lives, not love lives. Lots of them are even giving up sex. I don’t have a love life because I’ve never met a man who knew how to have a love life. Maybe I don’t know how, either.”

With that, teardrops bucked out of Leigh-Cheri’s eyes like bronco amoebae leaving the chutes in a biology lab rodeo.
Had Reed Jarvis been aware that Leigh-Cheri’s blue blood was at that instant tinted with streaks of tequila, he might have attributed her tears partially to booze, thus painting her to resemble less a snow statue in a furnace room. As it was, Jarvis’s portrait of her in People as a misty-eyed romantic was still more accurate than the descriptions the gossipmongers would write-"tragic beauty,” “tormented princess"-when she took to her attic.
There are essential and inessential insanities.
The latter are solar in character, the former are linked to the moon. Inessential insanities are a brittle amalgamation of ambition, aggression,
and pre-adolescent anxiety-garbage that should have been dumped long ago. Essential insanities are those impulses one instinctively senses are virtuous and correct, even though peers may regard them as coo coo.
Inessential insanities get one in trouble with oneself. Essential insanities get one in trouble with others. It’s always preferable to be in trouble with others. In fact, it may be essential.
Poetry, the best of it, is lunar and is concerned with the essential insanities. Journalism is solar (there are numerous newspapers named The Sun, none called The Moon) and is devoted to the inessential.
About Leigh-Cheri, it would have made more sense to write a poem than an article. Reed Jarvis, with his Remington SL3, wrote an article. Others would follow. It remained for Bernard Mickey Wrangle, with his dynamite, to write the poem.
33
AFTER THE INTERVIEW, the Princess went directly to bed. Gulietta told her a bedtime story. It had the desired effect. She fell quickly asleep and dreamt of Ralph Nader. During the night she awoke but once: when Nader entered a dream restaurant and ordered frog’s legs. “Oh,” she gasped and sat straight up in bed.
Leigh-Cheri had intended to go to the police the next morning between breakfast and the belated official opening of the Care Fest, but by the time she’d been served in the overcrowded Pioneer Inn dining room, she’d been barely able to eat and get across Hotel Street for the invocation in Banyan Park. Soon she was immersed in Dr. John Lilly’s lecture on the role of marine mammals in the future of the human race. Predictably, the park was jammed. Leigh-Cheri hadn’t arrived early enough to get within the cover of the banyan tree, though its shadow darkened deliciously the better part of

an acre. She could hear well enough and with minor optic stress could make out the images that Dr. Lilly projected on a screen, but she was marooned in hot sunbeams. The sun raked her exposed flesh. It made her feel slightly faint. Reed Jarvis had reminded her that she was entitled to VIP privileges at the Care Fest. Ever reluctant to exploit her title, she was reaching the point where she’d pull rank like a little red wagon if it’s get her a place in the shade.
As if by genie service, a shadow fell over her. Initially, she feared it was the jinx cloud, moving in for the kill. It wasn’t. Bernard was standing beside her, holding above her head a tattered parasol.
“What are you doing here?” Her whisper didn’t sound half as hostile as she’d have liked it to.
He nodded his dark curls at the podium screen, upon which an image of a porpoise was projected. “Sharks are the criminals of the sea,” he said. “Dolphins are the outlaws.”
“You’re bananas,” she said.
“Then split with me.”
“Huh-uh. Bananas is not the color of my true love’s hair.”
The reference to hair color caused him to flinch. She didn’t notice. She’d
returned her attention to Dr. Lilly.
“Okay. If you want to see me, just look up my address.”
“I don’t want to see you, although the authorities might. Anyhow, where
would I look up your address? In the Banana Directory? And I don’t mean the Yellow Pages.”
“Look up. Look up.”
She looked up. She couldn’t help it. Chalked in a nasty scrawl on the underside of the parasol were the words LAHAINA SMALL BOAT HARBOR, THE SLOOP HIGH JINKS.
He shoved the parasol handle into her hand. He leaned his ravaged teeth close to her ear. “Yum,” he whispered. Then he was gone.
34
SHE LUNCHED ON papaya poo poo or mango mu mu or some other fruity foo foo bursting with overripe tropical vowels. In hot climates, A provides a shady arch, O is a siphon through which to suck liquids, U a cool cave or tub to slide into; A stands like a surfer with its legs apart, O hangs like a citrus from a bough, U rolls its hula hips-and I and E mimic the cries of monkeys and jungle birds from which they were derived. Consonants, like fair-skinned men, do not thrive in torrid zones. Vowels are built for southern comfort, consonants for northern speed. But O how the natives do

bOOgIE-wOOgIE while the planters WaLTZ.
She dined on avocado aloha or, perhaps, guava lava. Gulietta gummed
roast veal à la missionary. Beach boys ringed their table, speaking indecencies. Repeatedly, Gulietta flailed her mop-stick arms, waving the young dogs away. Gulietta appeared to be enjoying it. Shooing surfers off the Princess was clearly more fun than shooing flies off the Queen. Leigh- Cheri paid scant attention. She was trying to decide whether to turn in Bernard during the lunch break.
Okay, so he had saved her from the sun. That princess cannot expect a happy ending who has been rescued by the dragon. Okay, so his exuberant spirits lent him a superficial charm. Lucifer was the cutest angel in heaven, they say, and every death’s head wears a grin. This Bernard character was a menace. Two whole days of the Care Fest had been lost on his account, and who could guess what further outrage he might commit. Her duty was plain. The only question was: now or later?
“Now,” she snapped. “If I hurry.” She handed Gulietta a bank note with which to settle the check. Gulietta was attacking her missionary veal with missionary zeal. “I’ll meet you in the park in twenty minutes,” said Leigh- Cheri, not forgetting to make the appropriate hand signs.
As she sped out of the dining room, one of the beach boys called after her, “Hey, Red, where’s the fire? Between your legs? Ha ha.”
And as she crossed the lanai, she encountered the fair-skinned extraterrestrials from Argon. “Mutant,” hissed the turbaned woman. “You’re branded on every planet in the system,” said the fez-topped man. “Don’t you understand that you’ve been mutated by solar radiation acting upon the excessive sugars and sex hormones in your body? You can’t fool the sun.”
“Jesus!” swore the Princess. She hurried across the street toward the docks. “Sometimes I feel like buying a quart of Lady Clairol and just changing my goddamned color.”
When she arrived at the sloop christened High Jinks, she was stunned to find that the familiar face that answered the cabin door was now wearing hair at least as red as her own.
35
"IF YOU’VE COME TO ARREST me again,” said Bernard, twirling his trigger finger in his brilliant curls, “then you should be aware of my true identity. It’s a wise cop who knows her own prisoner. On the other hand, if you’ve come because you like me, it might make you like me more to see what we have in common."

“Yeah,” said Leigh-Cheri. “We’re both mutants.”
“I beg your pardon?”
“Nothing. Nothing. You’re one of the redheads, all right. Is this really
your natural shade?”
“You mean can I trace my roots back to Henna? This is the color I
busted out of the womb with. The last of the black dye just washed down the drain and out to sea. Jacques Cousteau is probably swimming through it, thinking that some squid is writing with a leaky pen again.”
“Okay, I guess you are as red as I am. But that’s all we have in common.”
“What makes you so sure?”
“There are two kinds of people in this world: those who’re part of the solution and those who’re part of the problem.”
“I see. I make messes, you clean ’em up? Well, let me tell you, there are two kinds of people in this world: those who look at life and see the frost on the pumpkin and those who look and see the drool on the pie.”
(Actually, there are two kinds of people in this world: those who believe there are two kinds of people in this world and those who are smart enough to know better. However, Leigh-Cheri and Bernard were occupied with the nuances of an intricate dance, so let’s be generous and cut them some slack.)
They were on the deck in the noonday sun, but Leigh-Cheri had raised the parasol, and Bernard crouched in the pencil-nub shadow of the mainsail gaff. The Pacific, tranquilized here by a broken-square jetty, rocked them as sweetly as winos rock wine. “You look familiar now, with your hair red. I think I’ve seen pictures of you.”
“I do have a good agent. My publicity photos get around.”
“Where? On post office walls? You’re some kind of infamous hoodlum, aren’t you?”
“I wouldn’t put it that way. When I was younger, I did have a slight brush with the law. You know how boys are.”
“No. Tell me about it.”
“Nothing much to tell. A misunderstanding involving a city councilman’s daughter and a borrowed car. But the aftermath . . . it did leave a mark. After thirty days in the sissies and snitches tank, which is another story, I was made a trustee. The trustee quarters were on the second floor, the same as the jail kitchen. All the trustees had access to the kitchen. Well, I’d been a trustee less than a week when three kitchen knives and a seventeen-inch in diameter meat-slicing blade turned up missing. Naturally, every trustee was suspected of stealing the knives. They

completely tore apart our sleeping quarters, and the TV room, too. But they didn’t find the knives. So they lined us up in the hallway, watched over by a squad of guards armed with riot guns and Mace. One by one, we were marched into a small room, where, in front of several more guards and a captain with a flashlight, we were made to strip. They made me turn around, grab the cheeks of my ass and bend over, so they could look up my rectum to make sure I wasn’t hiding three kitchen knives and a seventeen- inch in diameter meat-slicing blade. Of course, they didn’t find the missing cutlery in any of us. But they did find four bars of soap, a Playboy centerfold, three ice cubes, five feathers, Atlantis, the Greek delegate to Boys’ Nation, a cake with a file in it, a white Christmas, a blue Christmas, Pablo Picasso and his brother Elmer, one baloney sandwich with mustard, two Japanese infantrymen who didn’t realize that World War II was over, Prince Buster of Cleveland, a glass-bottom boat, Howard Hughes’s will, a set of false teeth, Amelia Earhart, the first four measures of ‘The Impossible Dream’ sung by the Black Mountain College choir, Howard Hughes’s will (another version), the widow of the Unknown Soldier, six passenger pigeons, middle-class morality, the Great American Novel, and a banana.”
“Jesus!” swore Leigh-Cheri. She didn’t know whether to laugh or jump overboard. “Look, who are you, anyway? And what’s your game?”
“Woodpecker’s the name, and outlawing’s the game. I’m wanted in fifty states and Mexico. It’s nice to feel wanted, and I’d like to be wanted by you. In fact, I just blew my disguise in the hopes that it would open your eyes and soften your heart. There. My cards are on the table. An expression your old daddy would surely understand.”
“Jesus! The Woodpecker. Bernard Wrangle. I should have guessed.”
His cocky smile was finally gone. If smiles had addresses, Bernard’s would have been General Delivery, the Moon. He looked at her with that kind of painted-on seriousness that comedians shift into when they get their chance to play Hamlet. Still, there was genuine tenderness and longing.
“This is too much for me to deal with right now,” said Leigh-Cheri. Despite the heat waves that hootchy-kootchied all around her, she trembled. Why had she come to the boat in the first place? She could have just sent the police. “I’m due back at the Care Fest.” Indeed, the panel discussion on birth control was scheduled to begin in seven minutes.
He attempted to help her onto the dock, but she spurned his hand. Hustling away, the tattered parasol flapping like a werewolf’s shirttail, she called back, “They’re going to get you again, you know.”
Bernard’s smile came partway home. “They never got me, and they

never will. The outlaw is someone who cannot be gotten. He can only be punished by other people’s attitudes. Just as your attitudes are punishing me now.”
36
WHEN THE ORGANIZERS of the Geo-Therapy Care Fest announced their intentions, they were blizzarded by applications from manufacturers and salespeople of “ecologically sound” stuff who wished concessions to peddle their New Age wares-teas and herbs, sleeping bags and hot tubs, tipis and windmills, water distillers and air purifiers, wood stoves and frozen yogurt, arts and crafts, books and kits, bio-magnetic underwear and carob chip cookies-on the premises. The organizers refused. They had no complaint against ecology fairs or the cosmic profits to be reaped from them. It was just that their Care Fest was conceived to traffic, as they put it, “in ideas not objects."
Now, the line that separates objects from ideas can be pretty twiggy, but let’s not unzip that pair of pants. Galileo was right to drop objects rather than ideas off of his tower, and the Care Fest might have been wise to stick with objects, as well. Within the normal range of perception, the behavior of objects can be measured and predicted. Ignoring the possibility that in the wrong hands almost any object, including this book you hold, can turn up as Exhibit A in a murder trial; ignoring, for the moment, the far more interesting possibility that every object might lead a secret life, it is still safe to say that objects, as we understand them, are relatively stable, whereas ideas are definitely unstable, they not only can be misused, they invite misuse-and the better the idea the more volatile it is. That’s because only the better ideas turn into dogma, and it is this process whereby a fresh, stimulating, humanly helpful idea is changed into robot dogma that is deadly. In terms of hazardous vectors released, the transformation of ideas into dogma rivals the transformation of hydrogen into helium, uranium into lead, or innocence into corruption. And it is nearly as relentless.
The problem starts at the secondary level, not with the originator or developer of the idea but with the people who are attracted by it, who adopt it, who cling to it until their last nail breaks, and who invariably lack the overview, flexibility, imagination, and, most importantly, sense of humor, to maintain it in the spirit in which it was hatched. Ideas are made by masters, dogma by disciples, and the Buddha is always killed on the road.
There is a particularly unattractive and discouragingly common affliction called tunnel vision, which, for all the misery it causes, ought to top the job list at the World Health Organization. Tunnel vision is a disease

in which perception is restricted by ignorance and distorted by vested interest. Tunnel vision is caused by an optic fungus that multiplies when the brain is less energetic than the ego. It is complicated by exposure to politics. When a good idea is run through the filters and compressors of ordinary tunnel vision, it not only comes out reduced in scale and value but in its new dogmatic configuration produces effects the opposite of those for which it originally was intended.
That is how the loving ideas of Jesus Christ became the sinister clichés of Christianity. That is why virtually every revolution in history has failed: the oppressed, as soon as they seize power, turn into the oppressors, resorting to totalitarian tactics to “protect the revolution.” That is why minorities seeking the abolition of prejudice become intolerant, minorities seeking peace become militant, minorities seeking equality become self- righteous, and minorities seeking liberation become hostile (a tight asshole being the first symptom of self-repression).
The foregoing sermonette was brought to you by the Essential Insanities Dept. at Outlaw College. It was delivered in the hope that it might explain how the Care Fest, with so many masters on the roster, so many juicy ideas on the grill, went haywire.
At the Wednesday morning session, Dr. John Lilly had no sooner completed his lecture on sea mammal intelligence, ending with the idea that “a continuing dialogue with cetaceans could transform our view of all living species and the planet we share,” than he was challenged by a segment of the audience that considered it a waste of time and money to try to communicate with animals when we couldn’t communicate with each other. “What about human communication?” they demanded. “My ex-husband,” said one, “couldn’t understand a word I said. Do you think he could understand a porpoise?” “Is any big fish,” asked another, “gonna get my people outta the ghetto and onto the payroll? If not, I ain’t wasting my breath on the sucka.”
Tunnel vision.
Leigh-Cheri thought the questions made some sense, although the questioners were rude. She felt embarrassed for Dr. Lilly and was cheered when he handled the antagonists with grace. Actually, the morning session went as slick as dolphin sweat compared to the turmoil of the afternoon.
Because the Care Fest was running two days behind schedule, thanks to that birdbrained son-of-a-bitch Woodpecker, some doubling up was necessary. (If one must double up, then Hawaii, home of mahi mahi and loma loma, was the place to do it.) The panel on birth control had been

combined with the panel on childcare. The platform beneath the banyan boughs was end-to-end with experts, facts and figures forming at their lips like froth. The discussion was scarcely underway before a prevailing philosophy was established. It was this: if babies aren’t brought by storks, they ought to be, and maybe the storks could be trained to rear them, as well.
To be sure, this viewpoint was proffered by only a couple of panel members, but a large and loud contingent in the audience supported it with such volume and menace that it carried. “We don’t want birth control, we want prick control!” shouted a female in the third row. The applause that followed drowned out the woman who was lecturing on, yes, carrot seeds as an oral contraceptive. “Oh, dear,” thought Leigh-Cheri. “I wonder if that isn’t overstating the case?”
Things were getting a trifle rowdy. The sun didn’t help. Several people left for a dunk or a drink. Gulietta looked as if she wished to join them. Leigh-Cheri dangled from the stalk of her parasol, an easy target for bullets of brain Jello.
On stage, a magazine editor from New York, a chic executive of whom it had been said, “She has a mind like a steel trap-and a mouth, heart, and vagina to match,” was attempting a summation. She said, first of all, that childcare began with conception and claimed that it was egregiously unfair to expect women to babysit for nine months, night and day, without relief or assistance. In a voice that reminded Leigh-Cheri of a jackhammer at work on a string of pearls, the editor described to the conference the latest techniques for obstetrics, maintaining that women would not begin to realize their personal or societal potential until artificial insemination and controlled out-of-body gestation became routine practice around the globe. The editor hadn’t stopped at virgin birth. Once born, our babies must inherit the advantages of collective professionalism, she said, and urged the Care Fest to adopt a resolution petitioning the federal government to make funds immediately available for the subsidization of day-care centers where experts would insure standardized improvement for the young and independence for the parents.
The Princess was feeding this through her computer to determine how many shares she would buy when a poet, an aging humorist who’d been placed on the panel to provide a “different perspective,” did. He told the editor that her notions were a sift of sulfur on the roses of the race. The poet was snockered, but that has never been considered a handicap by those in his profession.

“What kind of babies will those be who are made of the formula instead of the fuck?” asked the poet. “No doubt they’ll possess two eyes each, and the recommended number of toes, but can the heat of their will be hot enough, can their imagination have all of its fingers, can their souls be expected to fully connect to the unraveling spool of the natural universe and not to the gunk in the bottom of the test tube? Will the infant pulled at the timer’s bell from a plastic womb where it has been deprived of rhythm, mother-bond, and the jostlings of everyday life not have some small space between its eyes filled with synthetic fluid, not bear, if nowhere else, in the core of its heart, the android’s mark?”
The editor shared with the audience her long look of practiced exasperation. “Are you afraid,” she asked the writer, “that a child not conceived in the old way won’t understand your jokes?”
From the audience, someone yelled, “Can the mystical bullshit!” at the poet, who, too determined or too drunk to heed, went on to say, “And those children reared under the watch of the state, burped by automats, tickled by technicians, comforted by recorded messages from network psychologists-what kind of society do you think those children will produce upon their maturity? Do you imagine for one moment that humans indoctrinated from birth by the government will be other than tools of that government, will not reside in and preside over a totalitarian police nation exceeding in tyrannical control the harshest nightmares of . . .”
By then the booing and catcalling had become so loud that the poet couldn’t be heard past the first few rows. He produced a gin bottle and spoke into it. Softly. The New York editor was smirking. Numerous accusations and at least one ripe papaya were lobbed at the podium. There followed an extended general exchange familiar to all who lived in the last quarter of the twentieth century. Women said the men had eaten the cherries out of the chocolates. Men said the women were peeing in the pool.
A teacher from the Delphian School in Sheridan, Oregon, got the mike for an instant. “It seems to me that in the midst of this bickering we are forgetting the children. When we neglect the children, we neglect the future, the future this conference is designed to serve.” He wore the mildly triumphant look of a man who has led a return to reason. Someone slapped him in the face with a bloody Kotex. “Existentialist!” the teacher cried.
“If you like babies so much,” a woman yelled, “have them yourself.”
“Right on, sister!” encouraged a young man in her vicinity. The man and woman firmly shook hands. The solution to the overpopulation problem might rest in such handshakes.

In an attempt to restore order, a well-known yogi, a Care Fest delegate, strolled onto the platform. He assumed the lotus position. He beamed. Serenely, meticulously, he took a cobweb apart, then put it back together. (There were no parts left over.) He swallowed three butterflies, then burped them up unharmed. Only that portion of the crowd that was already orderly was impressed. The yogi had the stink of eternity about him, and in many circles eternity was simply no longer fashionable.
The situation became increasingly unsavory. Also, tedious. You’ll be spared the details. Enough is enough. A banyan sends its adventitious roots to the ground, sometimes causing it to spread over a wide area. Under proper conditions, it bears figs. Thomas Jefferson was fond of figs. It was Jefferson’s genius that kept the American Revolution from being sucked into the tunnel faster than it was. Jefferson had red hair. Nothing is implied here. Except the possibility that everything is connected.
With the debate on the verge of violence-or worse, of being turned over to committee-Leigh-Cheri fled the park. The palm trees she passed, the romantic palms of Hawaii, were covering their ears with their fronds. Her sentiments exactly. “Jesus,” she swore. She felt like the gourmet who was goosed in Strasbourg. “It’s my pâte, and I’ll cry if I want to.”
In the Pioneer’s bar, she sat under one of the whaling harpoons that decorated the walls. She asked for a mai tai, then switched her order to tequila. Outside, the ocean banged its head against the jetty. She empathized completely. Inside, a different tide-young men with buzzing glands-swirled around her. From its eddy the news leaped like a sailfish: the police had finally solved the Lahaina bombing case. “Made da bust ’bout da hour ago,” she overheard a kamaaina say.
37
ACROSS THE WAVES, in Seattle, it continued to rain. Late at night the rain would harden into snow drops, but by the time the morning shift of engineers, coffee thermoses in hand, sloshed up to the security gate at Boeing Aircraft, there was plain rain again and plenty of it. A gelid wind, Alaska decals on every piece of its luggage, lingered in the rain without a sneeze, muscled through the blackberry brambles without a scratch, called upon the King and Queen without an invitation.
“Little wonder the CIA has so many leaks,” said Max. He was bundled against the drafts. “It knows nothing about insulation.”
Chuck wrote this down in his spy book. King Max watched him laboring over the spelling. “I-n-s-u-l-a-t-i-o-n,” said Max helpfully. If the King was aware of the insurrection afoot in his homeland, he kept it well hidden.

“He ain’t fooling me,” said Chuck. Using the kitchen extension, Chuck eavesdropped on a telephone conversation that Max had had with one A’ben Fizel.
“There’s some kind of deal on with the Arabs,” Chuck reported to the CIA.
“Was there any mention of arms?” asked Chuck’s connection.
“Talk of jet planes and missiles, I believe.”
Max had arranged for A’ben Fizel to meet Princess Leigh-Cheri when
she returned from Hawaii. Chaperoned, of course. Tilli and Max would accompany their daughter and Fizel to a basketball game. Seattle Supersonics versus the Houston Rockets. In the Kingdome.
“Said something about battle in the kingdom.”
“I’ll be damed,” swore the agent. He whistled. “This is bigger than we thought.”
To her Chihuahua, whose shivering little frame she had dressed in a purple wool sweater with fur at the collar, Queen Tilli complained. “Baskeetboll. Baskeetboll. You might haf known no Arab vud vant to attend zee opera.”
38
"YOU’RE CRYING."
“I am not.”
“My mistake. You aren’t crying. You aren’t out of breath, either. That’s
fortunate because this club doesn’t admit women with pants. Is that a pun in my pocket, or am I just glad to see you? Something’s wrong.”
Leigh-Cheri merely sniffed. “Have you got a tissue?” she asked.
“Yeah, sure. I’ll find you something. Come on in.”
Leigh-Cheri stooped and entered the cabin. She ripped a length of toilet
paper from the roll that Bernard fetched from the head. She blew her nose, a signal for all tears to return to their homes and families.
“Well, I see you’re still here.”
“I am definitely here. But that’s no reason to cry.”
“I wasn’t crying. I’ve had a bad day. Another one. One in a series of bad
days. I’m not complaining. Bad days are my bag. They’re time-consuming, however, and I’m a busy girl. I only stopped by here because I understood you’d been busted.”
“Oh? You turned me in?”
“No, damn you, I didn’t. Cops have busted somebody for bombing the Pioneer. Just a stab in the dark, a wild guess, I know, but I thought it might be you.”

“I’m hurt that you’d think such a thing but delighted that you came by to check. It is my privilege to report that if being uncaged is being free, then I am as the birdies in the blue.”
“Then who did the police arrest, I wonder?”
“I fear that there’s been an international, or rather, an interplanetary incident. The police have seen fit to incarcerate our guests from the faraway world of Argon.”
“No kidding? Really? How did it happen, I mean, why them?”
“Because an anonymous caller tipped off the cops, who subsequently found two sticks of dynamite in their rented Toyota. Hmmm . . .”
“Bernard!”
“Shhh. I’m trying to imagine what an Argonian driver’s license looks like. One of them would have had to have a driver’s license in order to rent a car.”
“Bernard, that was your dynamite.”
“Are you sure?”
“But two sticks. You had three.”
“Go ahead, tell me I’m selfish. Call me a bum Christian. I can’t help it. I
couldn’t bring myself to give it all away. One never knows when one might need some.”
She tried to respond as if he’d made a perfectly ordinary remark. She took a slow, calming breath. “What are you trying to say? With your dynamite, I mean?”
“Say? Dynamite didn’t come here to teach. It came to awaken.”
“Do you think dynamite can make the world a better place?”
“A better place than what? Argon?”
“You evasive bastard. I’m trying to understand you, and you won’t give
me a straight answer.” Her small sunburned fist, in frustration, crumpled the soiled toilet paper with which she’d dabbed her eyes and blown her nose.
“Maybe you’re not asking the right questions. If all you’re interested in is making the world a better place, go back to your Care Fest and question Ralph Nader-”
“I fully intend to go hear Ralph. Ralph Nader, I mean.” She blushed, feeling, perhaps, that she’d betrayed a secret onanistic intimacy.
“Good. Do that. But if you’re interested in experiencing the world as a better place, then stay here with me.”
“Oh yeah? That’d be fine-maybe-for you and me, but how about the rest of humanity?”

“A better world has gotta start somewhere. Why not with you and me?”
That silenced her. She seemed pensive. She unwaded the toilet paper just to have something to do with her hands. As she did so, she was reminded of the yogi who had taken the cobweb apart. “Bernard,” she said, “do you think I’ve been paying attention to the wrong things?”
“I don’t know, babe. I don’t know what you’ve been paying attention to, because I don’t know what you’ve been dreaming about. We may think we’re paying attention to this, that, or the other, but our dreams tell us what we’re really interested in. Dreams never lie.”
Leigh-Cheri thought about her dreams. Several episodes came vividly to mind. They caused her to blush again and set the peachfish to oozing from its gills. “I can’t recall any dreams,” she lied.
“We all dream profusely every night, yet by morning we’ve forgotten ninety percent of what went on. That’s why poets are such important members of society. Poets remember our dreams for us.”
“Are you a poet?”
“I’m an outlaw.”
“Are outlaws important members of society?”
“Outlaws are not members of society. However, they may be important
to society. Poets remember our dreams, outlaws act them out.”
“Yeah? How about a princess? Is a princess important?”
“They used to be. A princess used to stand for beauty, magic spells, and
fairy castles. That was pretty damn important.”
Leigh-Cheri shook her head slowly from side to side. Her fiery tresses
swung like plantation curtains-the night they drove old Dixie down. “Come on. Are you serious? That’s romantic bullshit, Bernard. I can’t believe the dreaded Woodpecker is such a cornball.”
“Ha. Ha ha. You love the earth so much, did you know it was hollow? The earth is hollow, Leigh-Cheri. Inside the ball there’s a wire wheel, and there’s a chipmunk running in the wheel. One little chipmunk, running its guts out for you and for me. At night, just before I fall asleep, I hear that chipmunk, I hear its crazed chattering, hear its little heart pounding, hear the squeaking of the squirrel cage-the wheel is old and rickety now and troubled by rust. The chipmunk is doing all the work. All we have to do is occasionally oil the wheel. What do you think lubricates the wheel, Leigh- Cheri?”
“Do you really think so, Bernard?”
“Cross my heart and hope to die.”
“I-I think so, too. But I feel guilty about it. I feel so fucking whimsical.”

“Those who shun the whimsy of things will experience rigor mortis before death.”
The High Jinks ran to forty feet, not including bowsprit. She slept four and could have slept more, but her cabin had been remodeled in such a way as to provide maximum cargo storage without being too obvious about her mission. She was teak with brass fittings and smelled like a spice boat, which, in a sense, she was. Leigh-Cheri sat aft, in the galley, at a glass- topped table. Beneath the glass was a nautical chart of the Hawaiian Islands. Coffee cups and tumblers of tequila had left circular stains on the glass, sticky atolls in a crumb-strewn Pacific. With those fingers that weren’t gripping toilet paper, Leigh-Cheri traced the rims of the unnamed reefs. “You know,” she said at last, “you make me feel good about being a princess. Most of the men I’ve known have made me feel guilty about it. They’d snicker up their sleeves at the mention of beauty and magic tricks and-what else did you say a princess stands for?”
“Enchantments, dramatic prophesies, swans swimming in castle moats, dragon bait-”
“Dragon bait?”
“All the romantic bullshit that makes life interesting. People need that as badly as they need fair prices at the Texaco pump and no DDT in the Pablum. The men you’ve been with probably wouldn’t kiss your nipples correctly for fear they’d suck in some pesticide.”
Upon hearing their name called, her nipples sprang to attention.
“Early in my career as an outlaw, it doesn’t matter when, right after my first jailbreak, I helped hijack an airliner to Havana. Castro, that great fox, granted me sanctuary, but I hadn’t been in Cuba a month before I borrowed a small boat with an outboard motor and putt-putted like hell for the Florida Keys. The sameness of the socialistic system was stifling and boring to me. There was no mystery in Cuba, no variety, no novelty and worse, no options. For all the ugly vices that capitalism encourages, it’s at least interesting, exciting, it offers possibilities. In America, the struggle is at least an individual struggle. And if the individual has strength enough of character, salt enough of wit, the alternatives are thicker than polyesters in a car salesman’s closet. In a socialistic system, you’re no better or no worse than anybody else.”
“But that’s equality!”
“Bullshit. Unromantic, unattractive bullshit. Equality is not in regarding different things similarly, equality is in regarding different things differently.”

“You may be right.” She fiddled with the toilet paper. She drew it across the table top and absentmindedly wiped out a whole archipelago. Is that what an “act of God” is? “I certainly don’t feel like I’m the same as everybody else. Especially when I’m around you. But that only inspires me to want to help those who aren’t as lucky as me.”
“There’s always the same amount of good luck and bad luck in the world. If one person doesn’t get the bad luck, somebody else will have to get it in their place. There’s always the same amount of good and evil, too. We can’t eradicate evil, we can only evict it, force it to move across town. And when evil moves, some good always goes with it. But we can never alter the ratio of good to evil. All we can do is keep things stirred up so neither good nor evil solidifies. That’s when things get scary. Life is like a stew, you have to stir it frequently, or all the scum rises to the top.” He paused. “Anyway, to hear you tell it, you haven’t been real lucky lately.”
“That may be changing. You’ve reaffirmed my belief in romantic bullshit, and Ralph Nader speaks in forty minutes. But answer me one more question before I go. If I stand for fairy-tale balls and dragon bait-dragon bait-what do you stand for?”
“Me? I stand for uncertainty, insecurity, surprise, disorder, unlawfulness, bad taste, fun, and things that go boom in the night.”
“You’ve really bought the desperado package, haven’t you? I mean, you’ve actually done those big bad things. Hijacked planes, blown-up banks-”
“No. No banks. I leave banks to the criminal types. Without and within. Outlaws never-”
“You make outlaw sound so special.”
“Oh, it’s not all that special, I suppose. If you’re honest, you sooner or later have to confront your values. Then you’re forced to separate what is right from what is merely legal. This puts you metaphysically on the run. America is full of metaphysical outlaws. I’ve simply gone one step farther.”
“Out of the frying pan and into the crossfire, eh, Bernard? I admire the courage of that. I do. But, frankly, it seems to me that you’ve turned yourself into a stereotype.”
“You may be right. I don’t care. As any car freak will tell you, the old models are the most beautiful, even if they aren’t the most efficient. People who sacrifice beauty for efficiency get what they deserve.”
“Well, you may get off on being a beautiful stereotype, regardless of the social consequences, but my conscience won’t allow it. And I goddamn refuse to be dragon bait. I’m as capable of rescuing you as you are of

rescuing me.”
“I’m an outlaw, not a hero. I never intended to rescue you. We’re our
own dragons as well as our own heroes, and we have to rescue ourselves from ourselves. Even outlaws perform services, however, and I brought my dynamite to Maui to remind the Care Fest that good can be as banal as evil. As for you, well . . . did you really expect me to keep my senses after taking a look at your hair?”
Leigh-Cheri held a strand of her hair to her eyes. As if in comparison, she reached across the table to where Bernard sat opposite her and examined one of his unruly ringlets. The hair of most so-called redheads actually is orange, but it was red, first color in the spectrum and the last seen by the eyes of the dying, it was true-blue red that clanged like fire bells about the domes of Bernard Mickey Wrangle and Princess Leigh-Cheri.
There followed an embarrassed silence, tense and awkward, broken finally with a snap by the Woodpecker’s abrupt plunging of his hand into his jeans. Patterning his gesture after the successful Jack Horner, he pulled out a single hair and held it aloft. It glowed like a copper filament. “Can you match that?” he challenged.
Okay, buster. Okay okay okay okay okay okay.
Beneath the table, beneath a map of Hawaii with extraneous atolls, she submarined a hand into the depths of her skirt and slid it along the flat of her thigh. It winnowed into her panties. She yanked. Ouch! Damn it! She yanked again. And presto, there it was, curly and stiff, and as red as a thread from a socialist banner.
“What do you think of that?” she asked brightly. Then she noticed that from the tip of the hair there hung, like a tadpole’s balloon, a tiny telltale bead of fishy moisture. O sweet Jesus, no! She released her grip on the crumpled toilet paper. It fluttered to the deck like a stricken dove. Her face heated as crimson as the hair, and then some. She could have died.
“What do I think of that?” The Woodpecker’s voice was very very gentle. “I think it could make the world a better place."
39
"VERTICAL INTEGRATION by food conglomerates, as in the poultry industry, has moved with great speed in the last quarter of the twentieth century. Yet this incredible ‘poultry peonage’ of the chicken farmer has spread almost without notice by urban America."
In the moonlight that soaked through the foliage of the grand banyan tree, the Hero was addressing the multitudes. Dressed in an inexpensive gray suit and a terminally drab necktie, he might just as well have been

speaking in Philadelphia as Lahaina, but so enormous was his integrity that the sound of his voice caused the mongooses to cease stalking poodledogs on the grounds of the public library, and even Montana Judy’s mob, which had raised seven kinds of hell at the afternoon session of the Care Fest, sat on the grass in respectful silence. In fact, aside from several plastic Japanese fans and the Hero’s dry lips, the only thing moving in Banyan Park was an ancient chaperon, cruising the crowd, row by row, searching for her responsibility.
"How, for example, can the housewife detect and do something about residues of hormones, antibiotics, pesticides, and nitrates in the meat she purchases, or the excess water added to the chickens, hams, and processed meats?"
Slurp and slobber, smack and excess water. Leigh-Cheri and Bernard kissed deliriously. They were speaking in tongues. Like an animal at a salt lick, he cleaned up the last of her tears. He even kissed a pearl of her snot away. As if his tongue weren’t enough, he eased a finger as well into her mouth and read the slippery Braille being writ there. She sucked his finger, and pressed her body against his so tightly that he nearly lost balance and toppled to starboard. The ocean in the Small Boat Harbor was feisty with tide, and they hadn’t gained their sea legs yet. Cautiously, centimeter by centimeter, squeezing as he went, Bernard worked a freckled hand up inside her skirt. Her panties all but dissolved in his grip. Oh my! Had King Max telephoned his bookie right then, he’d have found the odds running eight to one against celibacy.
"The chemical industry and its pushers have ensured that the government go slow on research for alternative and safer methods of pest control."
Bernard handed her a capsule and a cup of tequila with which to wash it down. “Here. Swallow this.”
“What is it?”
“She-link. Chinese birth control. It’s very old and very safe. One capsule lasts for months. Take it, babe.”
“I don’t know. . . . What’s in it?” “The Four Immortals.”
“Only four. I’d feel safer with six.” “Take it.”
“With six you get eggroll.”
“Take it.”
She took it, trying, as she swallowed, not to think of that line of
marching Chinese, eight abreast, stretching completely around the globe.

“Later, I’ll teach you lunaception: how to observe the way your hormonal cycle coordinates with light. You can learn to synchronize your body with moon phasing and be knock-up proof and in harmony with the universe at the same time. A whale of a bargain."
Leigh-Cheri was so pleasantly surprised by what she was hearing, so delighted by this mad bomber’s concern for her womb, that she threw her arms around him and kissed him like he was going out of style, which to the thinking of many, he was. She found herself laughing, kissing and undressing, all at the same time. Former Republican presidents, eat your hearts out.
"Competition, free enterprise, and an open market were never meant to be symbolic fig leaves for corporate socialism and monopolistic capitalism."
Did the Hero realize that as he spoke of symbolic fig leaves, real fig
leaves formed the canopy that shielded the sheen of his business suit from the playful rays of the moon?
Aboard the High Jinks, the last symbolic fig leaf had fallen. Bernard’s shorts-black, naturally-hit the deck moments after Leigh-Cheri stepped out of her panties. Their underwear just lay there, gathering dust, like ghost towns abandoned when the nylon mines petered out.
They tumbled onto a lower berth. Leigh-Cheri had been this aroused before but never this relaxed about it. Her knees framed her smiling face. She presented a target difficult to miss. The moon, bright as a lemon, entered the sloop via porthole and sparkled on the dripping bull’s-eye. His aim was true. He sank to the hilt. “Sweet Jesus!” she cried. “Yum-mm,” he moaned. The sea rocked the boat, as if egging them on.
“Rarely revealed publicly, but still operational, are corporate rationalizations that air pollution is the ‘price of progress’ and the ‘smell of the payroll.’ ”
As time passed, the air in the cabin was composed of two parts oxygen, one part nitrogen, and three parts slish vapor, French mist, and Cupid fumes. Their funk billowed over them like a sail. It carried them across the crest of spasm after spasm. The aroma of her cunt knocked the hatches back. The scent of his semen swamped the bilges.
“Ooh,” she marveled. “Don’t we smell pretty?”
“Good enough to eat,” he answered. He thought about what he had said. It gave him ideas.
“In all the current environmental concern and groping for directions by students and citizen’s groups, one major institution has been almost ignored or shunted aside as irrelevant.”

They had been still for a while, catching their breath, letting the tempo of their blood drums slacken, gazing into each other’s eyes in perfect manifestation of hypnotic universal peeper-lock love trance, when Leigh- Cheri said, “You know, Bernard, that was not very nice what you did.”
“I’m sorry. I thought you liked it. Some women are inhibited about having . . . that part of them loved-maybe it hurts them-but I tried to be gentle, and you certainly sounded like you were liking it.”
“Not that, silly. I’m not talking about that. I did like it. It was my first time. Not even a finger, can you believe it? It probably never occurred to my boyfriends that princesses even have assholes.” She kissed Bernard appreciatively.
“I wasn’t talking about that, you silly bomber. I meant your frame job. The poor ambassadors from Argon.”
“Them. Well, first of all, babe, if they really got here all the way from Argon, they shouldn’t have any trouble getting out of the Lahaina jail. Second, the things they were saying about redheads constituted a crime against nature. Nature demanded retribution. Third, the Woodpecker is proud of his deeds, even those that have a certain overtone of fuck-up about them. He’s not gonna let any glory hogs from outer space take credit for what was a rather fine piece of journeyman dynamiting. One day he’ll set the record straight. But not right away. There’re eleven months to go before the statute of limitations expires, at which time he plans to enjoy some especially amusing public appearances.”
“In eleven months you’ll be free?”
“If that’s freedom, yeah.”
“For some reason that makes me happy.”
“I can’t imagine why.”
They snuggled closer, and when they were as close as they could get
without being behind one another, they commenced to kiss again. His middle finger began to disappear into her vagina, but she pulled it out and forced it instead-with some discomfort and some ecstasy-deep into the royal rectum.
“Outlaw territory,” she whispered.
“What is needed is a sustained public demand for a liberation of law and technology that will disarm the corporate power that turns nature against man. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Good night.”
Did the banyan tree believe that the cheering was for it? Surely, the moon realized that in the last quarter of the twentieth century it could expect no applause. The Hero, nodding more than bowing, stepped down

from the podium and in scruffed shoes strode modestly from Banyan Park. If success is clapped and failure booed, then Gulietta deserved but
catcalls for her evening’s work. An hour’s diligent searching had not located her mistress and charge. Gulietta also left the park.
Bernard and Leigh-Cheri might legitimately have applauded themselves, but freshly fucked lovers seldom acknowledge “success” in those terms, and besides, they were too pooped to give themselves the standing ovation they deserved. They, too, were preparing to take their leave.
They sat on the berth. They shared a cup of tequila and a package of Hostess Twinkies. As if they were tourists at a geological site, they watched a flow of translucent lava inch its way down the inside of her leg.
“You sure were full of it,” she said.
“A regular Hostess Twinkie,” he replied.
She dipped a thumb into the flow and stuck it in her pretty mouth. It
made her giggle.
“I hear it tastes like plastic,” Bernard said.
“Cream of bomber soup. Someday I want a whole bowl full.”
“You know how to open the can.”
Dreamily, the Princess stood up. “I’m not sure if I can walk,” she said. “Then I’ll carry you.”
“Is that what love is?”
“I no longer know what love is. A week ago I had a lot of ideas. What
love is and how to make it stay. Now that I’m in love, I haven’t a clue. Now that I’m in love, I’m completely stupid on the subject.”
Leigh-Cheri was feeling stupid, as well. Look as she might, she couldn’t find her underpants. “They must have melted,” she joked as she hugged Bernard goodbye, but secretly she suspected that the gods had vaporized them as a warning, a sign of divine displeasure for her having given her heart and her ass to the outlaw rather than her mind and her soul to a cause. In actual fact, a mongoose, attracted by the primal fragrance emanating from the sloop, had come aboard and carried them off. Having chewed all of the salt out of them, the mongoose abandoned the panties in a gutter along Hotel Street, where, the following morning, the Hero, hailing a taxi for the airport, stepped on them without noticing, although the lace cried out sweetly to his purposeful shoes.
40
SHE WAS QUEEN of Hawaii at last. Hawaii opened up to her as she had opened up to Bernard, like a flower whose bell is deep and sticky, like a

book with satin pages, like a fruit so swollen with juice it moans for the prick of the knife. Despite Gulietta’s halfhearted objections, Leigh-Cheri spent Thursday with Bernard, and everywhere the two redheads went, Hawaii was there to receive them.
They picnicked in a forest beneath the volcano. Ants, perhaps bearing tiny leis, swarmed to greet them. Bernard bit into a tomato. He spit out its seeds. The seeds formed a circle on the ground. They sat inside the circle. Intent on wishing them “aloha,” the ants stormed the circumference, but the circle would not yield. Leigh-Cheri passed Bernard the pickles. Bernard handed Leigh-Cheri the cheese. From somewhere in the jungle, the wind knocked bamboo together, making a musical clack-clack-clack like the teeth of a wooden idol. Doors of yellow ginger blossoms, on hinges that never need oiling, opened and closed in the wind.
Bernard popped a can of Primo, the native Hawaiian beer. Although beer is one of the few neutral foods, being neither yin nor yang, acidic nor alkaline, solar nor lunar, masculine nor feminine, wholly dynamic nor wholly inert, although beer perpetually idles in neutral and therefore may be the perfect beverage for the dispassionate and indecisive last quarter of the twentieth century, the Princess did not drink beer. She was content to drink the warm zephyrs of Maui. And after lunch, the ants looking on in a state of frenzy, she drank her lover’s come. “Hmmm. It doesn’t taste like plastic,” she thought. “It tastes a lot like poi.” Ah, Hawaii.
There is lovemaking that is bad for a person, just as there is eating that is bad. That boysenberry cream pie from the Thrift-E Mart may appear inviting, may, in fact, cause all nine hundred taste buds to carol from the tongue, but in the end, the sugars, the additives, the empty calories clog arteries, disrupt cells, generate fat, and rot teeth. Even potentially nourishing foods can be improperly prepared. There are wrong combinations and improper preparations in sex as well. Yes, one must prepare for a fuck-the way an enlightened priest prepares to celebrate mass, the way a great matador prepares for the ring: with intensification, with purification, with a conscious summoning of sacred power. And even that won’t work if the ingredients are poorly matched: oysters are delectable, so are strawberries, but mashed together . . . (?!) Every nutritious sexual recipe calls for at least a pinch of love, and the fucks that rate four-star rankings from both gourmets and health-food nuts use cupfuls. Not that sex should be regarded as therapeutic or to be taken for medicinal purposes- only a dullard would hang such a millstone around the nibbled neck of a lay-but to approach sex carelessly, shallowly, with detachment and without

warmth is to dine night after night in erotic greasy spoons. In time, one’s palate will become insensitive, one will suffer (without knowing it) emotional malnutrition, the skin of the soul will fester with scurvy, the teeth of the heart will decay. Neither duration nor proclamation of commitment is necessarily the measure-there are ephemeral explosions of passion between strangers that make more erotic sense than many lengthy marriages, there are one-night stands in Jersey City more glorious than six-months affairs in Paris-but finally there is a commitment, however brief; a purity, however threatened; a vulnerability, however concealed; a generosity of spirit, however marbled with need; an honest caring, however singed by lust, that must be present if couplings are to be salubrious and not slow poison. Having consumed for years only junk-food sex (some of it undeniably finger-licking good), Princess Leigh-Cheri was now the recipient, in abundance, of both lusciousness and nourishment, and needless to say, it was agreeing with her. Trying to make love standing up in the Kaanapali surf (tourists on the sands were none the wiser), enjoying her lover’s reflection (crimson pubes and all) in a jungle pool near Hana, bouncing her sex-sore bottom along a riding trail at Makawao (she’d never seen anyone stand in the saddle before or bring down a mango with a thrown blade: that Bernard!) it was as if all her travel-poster fantasies had finally come true.
41
AND YET THE PEA under the mattress complained. It broadcast-peep peep peep-through the most luxuriant stuffing its bruising litany: poverty, waste, injustice, pollution, disease, armaments, sexism, racism, overpopulation; a boring inventory of social ills atop which princess meat could never quite get comfortable.
Nagged by the pea, she thought of returning that night to the Care Fest and to the purpose of her mission to Maui. Through the kamaaina grapevine, however, she overheard a report of the day’s session in Banyan Park that inflamed the least attractive aspects of her redheadedness. It seemed that the Care Fest microphones had been seized, first by Montana Judy’s gang, who harmonized on thirty-eight verses of the popular ballad, “All Men Are Rapists” (oddly enough, many men in the audience sang along); then by Gay Bob and his friends, who read aloud a long poetic manifesto entitled “Everyone Is Homosexual"; then by the Rev. Booker T. Kilimanjaro, who, Bible in one hand, machete in the other, launched into his speciality: a sermon, “Pilate Was a Honky Imperialist, Jesus Was a Nigger,” delivered while performing the latest disco dances. Meanwhile, the seminar on solar energy was eclipsed, and the lecture on immortality drugs

was killed. When the yogi who had taken the cobweb apart attempted, at the request of management, to cosmically charm the interlopers into relinquishing the podium, he was hurled from the stage and was last seen limping toward the first-aid tent slouched over in the Broken-Collarbone Asana.
Leigh-Cheri was furious. “You know what we should do? And I’m serious. Take that last stick of you-know-what over there and just run those rude assholes right out of the park. The Care Fest has turned into a can of worms, anyhow. We might as well finish it off.”
“Oh yeah? You mean you would have me blow up something just because I didn’t approve of it? What do you think I am, a vandal? A fascist? A fucking critic?”
“Shit,” said Leigh-Cheri. “No, I don’t think you’re any of those things. I think you’re an outlaw. And I’m starting to think that outlawism, the way you practice it, has got just as many rules as anything else.”
That one hurt. They were sitting in the second-story window of the Blue Max, and as if to drive off the sting of her accusation, he was tempted to pull that last stick of you-know-what from his clothing, ignite it, and toss it into Front Street. He composed himself, though, and replied, “You obviously acquired your knowledge of explosives from watching cartoons on television. All those barnyard animals and psychopathic house pets shoving TNT in each other’s beds. Well, real bombs do more than burn your fur off, I’m afraid. And there’s no Hollywood animator to put you back together in the next frame. Dynamite is not some kind of custard pie in the hands of pissed-off pussycats and vengeful ducks. And it’s not a practical joke-”
“All right, all right. You don’t have to make excuses. Apparently an outlaw has grave responsibilities. Just like a general or a judge.”
That did it. He jerked the deadly cylinder from inside his shirt and thrust its fuse-end into the candle flame that was dutifully going through the motions of romantic restaurant flick-flick upon the table top between them. Instead of throwing the dynamite into the street, however, he held it over his head like Liberty’s torch while Leigh-Cheri looked on, paralyzed with horror. Other patrons of the Blue Max looked on in horror, too. A waitress found the voice to scream. A surfer dove over the bar. The fuse sputtered and sparked, like a life intensely lived. “This is the way to burn,” the fuse seemed to be saying to the more docile, slow-witted candlewick. “Brilliantly, ecstatically, irrepressibly. This is the way to burn.”
The fuse had an appointment and could not wait around to see if the candlewick had the courage to follow its advice.

42
AT THE LAST POSSIBLE SECOND,Bernard jammed the fuse in his mouth. It sizzled in saliva. He pulled it loose with his teeth.
“Ouch,” he cried. It was the only word spoken.
Finishing his tequila mockingbird in a gulp, he assisted the stunned Princess to her feet and ushered her to the stairs. Nobody tried to stop them. The normally clamorous Blue Max was as quiet as a prayer.
He walked her to the Pioneer Inn. “Go up and pack,” he said. “You and Gulietta meet me at the boat as quick as you can.” He leaned forward to kiss her but thought better of it. There was a nasty burn on his tongue.
43
SUNSET LINGERED a long while that evening. It was as if a mai tai had been spilled in the sky. Streaks of grenadine, triple sec, maraschino, and rum seeped over the horizon, puddled upon the sea. Like a moth with a sweet tooth, the High Jinks glided toward the spill.
The marijuana smuggler and an associate attended to the sailing. Gulietta squatted in the stern, still as a toad. Leigh-Cheri and Bernard sat in the bow and talked.
“I’m sorry that I upset you,” she said. “This is not an easy time to be a princess.”
“No, and it’s not an easy time to be an outlaw, either. There’s no longer any moral consensus. In the days when it was generally agreed what was right and what was wrong, an outlaw simply did those wrong things that needed to be done, whether for freedom, for beauty, or for fun. The distinctions are blurred now, a deliberately wrong act-which for the outlaw is right-can be interpreted by many others to be right-and therefore must mean that the outlaw is wrong. You can’t tilt windmills when they won’t stand still.” He gazed into the sunset briefly, then broke into his dentistry- defying grin. “But it doesn’t really bother me. I’ve always been a square peg in every round hole but one.”
“Speaking of that, this is not an easy time for lovers, either. With the divorce rate up to sixty per cent, how can anyone attend a wedding with a straight face anymore? I see lovers walking hand in hand, looking at each other as if nobody else was alive on the earth, and I can’t help thinking that in a year, more or less, they’ll each be with someone new. Or else nursing broken hearts. True, most lovers don’t work at it hard enough, or with enough imagination or generosity, but even those who try don’t seem to have any ultimate success these days. Who knows how to make love stay?”
He thought for several moments before he answered.

“I guess love is the real outlaw,” he said.
She wanted him to say more, and perhaps eventually he would have, but the next word he uttered was “Yikes!” And her own next words were “Sweet Jesus!” Gulietta’s words were beyond the capabilities of the Remington SL3, and the words of the smugglers were obscured by the whoosh.
It went “whoosh” as it shot by, a sleek panatela of frozen light, pulsating with polka dots of every color, traveling, a mere thousand feet or so above the water, at incredible speed and mopping up the last of the sunset as if it were a bar rag from outer space.
Actually, and everyone aboard agreed on this in subsequent discussions, it had not pulsated with lights of every color. One color was notably absent. There wasn’t any red.
On the ship’s radio that night, they learned that numerous other parties had reported having seen a UFO rise up from Haleakala and disappear over the Pacific. But UFO sightings were old hat around Maui, and this one received little attention on the news. Much more air play was given to a dispatch about a jailbreak in Lahaina. A man and woman charged with dynamiting the Pioneer Inn had escaped from their cell. Noting that Maui was a small island, police predicted the couple’s capture within a few hours.
44
ALTHOUGH THE PASSING of the spaceship, if, indeed, that’s what it was (the naval weather station at Pearl Harbor claimed it had been a meteor), set the High Jinks compass needle spinning in wild abandon, it regained its senses after an hour and resumed its obsequious fidelity to the domineering north. In the meantime, to keep them on course, Bernard took fixes on the moon and the constellations of Orion and Buddy Holly. They breezed into Kalohi Channel, making for Honolulu. The wind had its arms around them. The sea dandled them on its knee.
“Do you suppose,” asked Leigh-Cheri, “that they really were from Argon?”
“Either there or L.A.”
“They had a strange smell about them.”
“Moth balls.”
“Was that it?”
“They got their turbans and robes out of an old Shriners trunk-or else
naphthalene is used as underarm deodorant where they come from.” “Bernard, suppose they were from another planet. Could they be right
about redheads? Are we really moonstruck mutants whose weaknesses are

betrayed by the sun?”
“I can tell you this much. In Central America, South America, and
Mexico, there are prevailing myths about a race of redheaded Caucasians who appeared thousands of years ago and conquered tribe after tribe with benevolent magic. As a matter of fact, the Incas, Aztecs, and Mayas attribute the development of their highly advanced civilization to the ‘Red Beards,’ as they called them. The pyramids and the other massive New World masonries were built by these demigods, the oral traditions of dozens of major ethnic groups are consistent about that. The Red Beards legend extends into Oceania, as well. The great stone heads of Easter Island are said to be portraits of those same carrot tops-”
“I hate it when people call me carrot top.”
“Me, too. The carrot has never lived that could match my top.” “Well, go on.”
“Myth is crystallized history. All these stories couldn’t possibly be
coincidence. So, assuming that there was a race of demidivine redheads, and assuming that one day it just up and vanished from the face of the earth-the accounts are consistent about that, too-that leaves us with an inviting hoop through which to slam-dunk our basketballs of romantic bullshit.”
“Yes?”
“Okay, one example. The Red Beards had extraordinary abilities. They were masters of, among other things, pyramid power, an incredibly effective harnessing of natural energies so mysterious and complex that modern science hasn’t begun to understand it yet. Where did the Red Beards acquire these abilities, so far removed from the mainstream of knowledge as it has evolved on earth? Could it be that they were extraterrestrials? If our wimpy intellects will permit us to entertain that possibility, then we could nail us together a little hypothesis. The Red Beards come here from Argon, bringing with them the keys to pyramid power and who knows what other Argonian technologies. A revolution then occurs on Argon. The redheaded ruling class is overthrown. Eventually, the rebels send a task force to earth and vaporize the redheaded colonies here. Or maybe the Red Beards were exiled to earth after a revolt or war had already taken place on Argon. Later, the new Argonian regime-it would be blonde, like the couple on Lahaina-decides that the exiles are growing too strong on our little planet and, wishing to eliminate the possibility of future counterrevolution, dispatch an army to get rid of them with some kind of device that is beyond our conception. Poof! Sayonara Red Beards. We could work up variations on this scenario. But any way you slice it, it would

account for both the presence and sudden disappearance of the Red Beards, as well as for the antipathy toward red hair among contemporary Argonians. The Red Beards might have been connected to Mars, the red planet. More likely, though, the conflict on Argon would have been between lunar and solar forces. The Red Beards would have been a lunar people- mystic, occult, changeable, feministic, spiritual, pacific, agrarian, artistic, and erotic. While the Yellow Hairs would have been solar: abstract, rational, prosaic, militaristic, industrial, patriarchal, unemotional, and puritan. It’s a classic struggle here on earth. Since suns and moons are universal, the struggle could extend throughout the universe, or at least throughout our own solar system. It’s a conflict that goes all the way back to the riff between Lucifer and Jehovah. The sun is Jehovah’s, but Lucifer rules dat ol’ debil moon.”
“Jesus,” said Leigh-Cheri. “That’s good. You ought to write for Acid Comics. But where do we present-day, earthbound redheads fit in? Are we throwbacks, descendants of the Red Beards?”
“Maybe. They could have copulated with earthlings or in some other more esoteric way have affected the gene pool. However, my guess would be that nature, under the impetus of the moon, is trying to reevolve another superior race, trying to recreate the destroyed Red Beards. It keeps planting red seeds. Some germinate, some don’t. Some grow in eccentric ways. Lots of false starts and imperfections. Lunar nature is trying to get the bugs out of the new model before it moves on to the next stage of redheaded evolution. Meanwhile, the sun takes its toll.”
“So redheads are either descendants of demigods or are potential demigods. That’s nice. I like that.” She kissed his ear. She pinched his buttocks. “One thing for sure. You and I make love better than ordinary mortals.”
“That’s a fact.”
“But do we know how to make love stay?”
“I can’t even think about it. The best I can do is play it day by day.”
“In times like these, I’m not sure if any lovers have a chance.”
“Don’t let yourself be victimized by the age you live in. It’s not the times
that will bring us down, any more than it’s society. When you put the blame on society, then you end up turning to society for the solution. Just like those poor neurotics at the Care Fest. There’s a tendency today to absolve individuals of moral responsibility and treat them as victims of social circumstance. You buy that, you pay with your soul. It’s not men who limit women, it’s not straights who limit gays, it’s not whites who limit blacks.

What limits people is lack of character. What limits people is that they don’t have the fucking nerve or imagination to star in their own movie, let alone direct it. Yuk.”
“Yuk, Bernard?”
“Yum.”
“Yum?”
“Yum. We’re now at the end of one epoch and well before the start of a
new one. During this period of transition, there will be no moratorium on individual aliveness. In fact, momentous events are hatching in the vacuum. It’s a wonderful time to be alive. As long as one has enough dynamite.”
“Or enough toot,” said the captain, who had just walked up with a plate of cocaine. Bernard did a line. Leigh-Cheri was hesitant. “Come on,” said Bernard. “This stuff’s so fine Julius Caesar called for it with his dying breath. ‘A toot, Brutus,’ is what he said. Come on, try it.”
Leigh-Cheri did a line. Then Gulietta did one. Perhaps Gulietta was remembering the snuff her royal employers used to snort in the good old days. The days when she would watch the swans sailing in the castle moat, never dreaming that one day, frogless, she would sail a moonlit ocean with a cargo of goofiness and love.
The sloop reached Honolulu on Saturday afternoon. The following morning, the Princess and Gulietta-and Bernard Mickey Wrangle (listed once again as T. Victrola Firecracker)-flew home to whatever stings or honeys awaited them in the vibrating American hive.
45
WHO KNOWS HOW to make love stay?
1. Tell love you are going to Junior’s Deli on Flatbush Avenue in
Brooklyn to pick up a cheesecake, and if love stays, it can have half. It will stay.
2. Tell love you want a momento of it and obtain a lock of its hair. Burn the hair in a dime-store incense burner with yin/yang symbols on three sides. Face southwest. Talk fast over the burning hair in a convincingly exotic language. Remove the ashes of the burnt hair and use them to paint a mustache on your face. Find love. Tell it you are someone new. It will stay.
3. Wake love up in the middle of the night. Tell it the world is on fire. Dash to the bedroom window and pee out of it. Casually return to bed and assure love that everything is going to be all right. Fall asleep. Love will be there in the morning.
Bernard the Woodpecker, who had mocked if not broken the behavioral codes of an entire civilization, rebelled, naturally enough, against the notion

that he must obey the rules and regulations of a house of second-rate royalty. Eventually, however, he put pride aside and obeyed-for he wanted very much to make love stay.
The billionaire Arab sportsman, A’ben Fizel, was, with Max and Tilli’s encouragement, paying court to Leigh-Cheri. If Bernard wanted so much as to see her, he had to formally court her, too. She loved him wildly, but rules are rules. She was not prepared to abandon royal privilege. “Changes are occurring in my family’s country. It’s boiling there. Perhaps someday the throne will be restored. I could eventually be queen. Think of the good I could do.” When he failed to respond, she added, “Think of the fun we could have. I’d put you in charge of the arsenal.”
So he paid court. He would treat her as if her crotch were a piece of Viennese wedding cake, sugar-frosted and rococo. He would behave as if toy soldiers guarded the vaginal gates.
Max and Tilli knew him only as a commoner the Princess had met in pagan Hawaii. They wouldn’t have granted him suitor status had not Gulietta put in a good word for him. As a result, Gulietta was given a plastic frog full of coke (a substance for which she’d acquired a sudden fondness).
Bernard resided downtown in Pioneer Square. He leased the Charles Bukowski Suite in the Been-Down-So-Long-It-Looks-Like-Up-to-Me Hotel. A bachelor apartment in a building favored by pensioners and mice. The living room sofa turned into a bed. Sometimes, during the night, with him in it, it would try to turn back into a sofa again. In the bathroom, where he redyed his hair prior to calling on Leigh-Cheri, there were cigar burns on the toilet seat. There was rust in the tub and soot on the curtains. There were spiders, greasy drafts, and a calendar so out of date it still believed that holidays could fall in the middle of the week.
Dressed in a black suit, black shirt, black boots, socks, and tie, the outlaw drove his battered Merc convertible to the suburbs. The rain had stopped, put the sky hung low. It was the color of moles. Seattle’s sky reminded Bernard of prison bedsheets. Using hindsight, we can see that that was ominous.
The King and Queen were to receive Bernard in the library. It was a musty room, but on its floor lay a very rare and very expensive white carpet. Whiter than doves, whiter than a toothache, whiter than God’s own breath. Bernard hadn’t seen Leigh-Cheri in nearly two weeks. He decided to attempt to smuggle a note to her via Gulietta. In the note he would recommend ingenuity. “May we be eaten by starving baby ostriches if we can’t concoct a secret way to meet.” Waiting for his prospective in-laws, he

went to the desk and commenced to scribble the note. In his nervousness, he knocked an open bottle of ink onto that Easter-white carpet.
The puddle was large. The stain permanent.
Surely Queen Tilli was gracious about the mishap. Wrong. In fact, she made no effort to conceal her extreme vexation. She caressed her Chihuahua in ivory silence. Awkward and tense, the evening drooped like the sky.
Tea was poured from a silver pot whose spout had once bowed to Winston Churchill. It was excellent tea, but the suitor was craving tequila. The King made small talk about basketball. About blackberries. The Princess was afraid to look Bernard in the eye. Birds could not have flown through the longing between them. Blackberry briars could not have penetrated the longing. At nine o’clock sharp, the suitor was dismissed. Chuck tried to follow him home but lost him when in a snit he ran six red lights, the last two backwards.
The next day, Bernard managed to get Leigh-Cheri on the telephone. She told him that Queen Tilli was inconsolable. He would not be invited back. “You’ve got to think of something.”
“I already have. Let’s go live in a gypsy cave on an island off the coast of Panama. I’ll play my harmonica for you and tie your hair in knots with coca leaves.”
“Nothing doing,” she said. “You must make amends.”
A few days later, Bernard bought two dozen roses and set out for Fort Blackberry. He knew King Max was in the hospital having his valve checked. Just as well. He would call on the Queen. He rehearsed the most moving apologies. He was a trifle desperate. He would not settle for less than amends.
An uneasiness was in Gulietta’s ancient eyes as she let him in. She gestured that he should wait in the music room. “Okay, but I forgot my harmonica,” said Bernard. Gulietta reached for the flowers. Bernard said no, he’d just hold onto them. He went into the music room and took a seat on the couch.
As he sat, he felt something warm and heard a soft, dry snap/crackle/pop, like a singular oversized Rice Krispy being bitten into by a crocodile. He stood up slowly. The dyed hair on his neck stood up with him. Beneath him was the beloved Chihuahua. He had sat on it. And broken its neck.
There was nothing to do but lift the lid of the piano and lay the dead Chihuahua inside on the wires. He stuffed the roses in on top of it and

closed the lid. He left without saying goodbye.
O sleep thy doggy nap of ages, wee beastie, yap after pharaohs’ cats in
the alleys of the afterworld. For Bernard Mickey Wrangle would neither sleep nor play that night. Fate had punched his ticket, love had bought him a seat on that train that only stops on the dark side of the moon.
This time, Chuck was successful in tailing him. In his haste for tequila, Bernard nipped into a Pioneer Square watering hole he normally wouldn’t have frequented, the Ra Bar Grill, owned and operated by a solar energy collective. Even the jukebox was powered by picking the sun’s pockets. While Bernard was feeding that jukebox, hoping that Waylon Jennings would restore his sense of reality, Chuck was across the street in a phone booth ringing his contact in the CIA. The agent was elated. The teacup that Chuck had delivered to him two days before had yielded fingerprints. Once that same cup had worn the fingerprints of Winston Churchill, but now only the prints of the Woodpecker adorned it. “The FBI will take care of him,” said the agent, “he’s made monkeys of them for years. Then my office will determine what part he’s been playing in the plot to restore King Max. Don’t let him out of your sight.”
Within an hour, Bernard was arrested-ten months to the day before the statute of limitations would have cut him loose. And although he yelled to the barroom crowd as the agents dragged him away, “They haven’t got me! It’s impossible to get me!” officials at McNeil Island Federal Penitentiary were already dusting out a cell from which they claimed Houdini could not have escaped.
And soon Princess Leigh-Cheri would be dusting out her attic, a cell devised to thwart love’s escape, a bare museum dedicated to what each of us wants and cannot have and to the sadness and joy of that wanting.
And here might be the moment to squirt one perfect tear, all bittersweet and shimmering with dreamy resignation. Except that as the serpent once sunned its coils in Eden, patiently awaiting the opportunity to let the biggest cat in eternity out of the sturdiest bag, so a pack of Camel cigarettes stands in these wings, waiting to come on and do its most unexpected stuff.
INTERLUDE
THE REMINGTON SL3 has a new paint job. I’ve brushed the sucker red. Don’t ask why. It’s the only way I can continue with the damned machine. Externally, at least, the effect is interesting. Almost shocking. Almost intimate. Jiggling upon my table now, it’s as ruddy and indiscreet as a plastic sack full of hickeys.
Internally, too, it may be destined for alterations. For better or worse,

it’s going to have to cope with letters, words, sentence structures with which no existing typewriter has had experience. Let me explain.
On a recent journey to Cuba, I found myself in the downtrodden plaza of an inland village, surrounded by adolescents politely requesting Chiclets. Had I imagined that Chiclets were a rare delicacy to Cubans, I might have smuggled in a few cartons from the Thrift-E Mart back home. As it was, however, I lacked both Chiclets and, as it turned out, the linguistics to say as much.
Always, I’d believed that the Spanish verb hablar meant “to have,” so that when one said “Sí, hablo español,” one was saying, “I have Spanish-I have command of the Spanish language.” Operating out of that misconception, I said to the handsome young Cubans, “No hablo Chiclets.” They smiled courteously.
Later, I learned that what I’d said was, of course, “I don’t speak Chiclets.”
At first I felt pretty dumb. But then I thought, “Well, it was an honest statement. I don’t speak Chiclets.”
Then I thought: “Why not?”
In the months since, I’ve been teaching myself to speak Chiclets. Let me tell you, it’s easier to speak Chiclets than to read or write it.
Nevertheless, there is a definite possibility that in the remaining pages of this book I might lapse momentarily into Chiclet prose. The subject matter almost requires it.
I hope that the Remington SL3 is up to the task.
Does the moon have a purpose? Are redheads supernatural? Who knows how to make love stay? I’m going to submit those questions, and several significant others, to the Remington SL3. Like a war between magicians, it can last a long time, and even then the outcome may not be what it appears to be.
But if the Remington SL3, freshly painted, can type in Chiclets, then this enterprise may hold together. Something has got to hold it together. I’m saying my prayers to Elmer, the Greek god of glue.
Phase
III
46
AFTER A DECENT INTERVAL, Queen Tilli acquired another
Chihuahua. Max insisted on it. He couldn’t stand it when she blubbered during dog food commercials, and the little urn of ashes was giving him the creeps. One day he simply blew out the black candles and drove her to a pet

store.
An outlaw lover is not so easily replaced.
Leigh-Cheri refused to see A’ben Fizel. She refused to see the reporters
who telephoned daily. The reporters didn’t want to ask her about the Woodpecker-her relationship with him was still secret from the public-the reporters wanted to talk about the monarchy of Mu. Two days following Bernard’s arrest, People magazine hit the stands with its article on her. It seemed the press thought Mu a good idea. Several deposed royals who’d been interviewed thought it a good idea. Even King Max, who’d never had the slightest interest in natural environment, beyond the blackberries that drummed their million menacing fingernails outside his walls, thought it a good idea. Max encouraged her to follow through. He encouraged her to see the reporters. He encouraged her to see A’ben Fizel. But Leigh-Cheri would see no one. She wished only to see Bernard, and so far the King County Jail, where he was being held while awaiting trial, had refused to allow him visitors.
He was not allowed bail, either. If he had been, Leigh-Cheri would have hocked what was left of Tilli’s crown jewels to go it, and the Furstenberg- Barcalona code could take a flying fuck at a rolling tiara.
“The most important thing is love,” said Leigh-Cheri. “I know that now. There’s no point in saving the world if it means losing the moon.”
Leigh-Cheri sent that message to Bernard through his attorney. The message continued, “I’m not quite twenty, but, thanks to you, I’ve learned something that many women these days never learn: Prince Charming really is a toad. And the Beautiful Princess has halitosis. The bottom line is that (a) people are never perfect, but love can be, (b) that is the one and only way that the mediocre and the vile can be transformed, and (c) doing that makes it that. Loving makes love. Loving makes itself. We waste time looking for the perfect lover instead of creating the perfect love. Wouldn’t that be the way to make love stay?”
The next day, Bernard’s attorney delivered to her this reply:
Love is the ultimate outlaw. It just won’t adhere to any rules. The most any of us can do is to sign on as its accomplice. Instead of vowing to honor and obey, maybe we should swear to aid and abet. That would mean that security is out of the question. The words “make” and “stay” become inappropriate. My love for you has no strings attached. I love you for free.
Leigh-Cheri went out in the blackberries and wept. “I’ll follow him to the ends of the earth,” she sobbed.
Yes, darling. But the earth doesn’t have any ends. Columbus fixed that.

47
BLACKBERRIES.
Nothing, not mushrooms, not ferns, not moss, not melancholy, nothing
grew more vigorously, more intractably in the Puget Sound rains than blackberries. Farmers had to bulldoze them out of their fields. Homeowners dug and chopped, and still they came. Park attendants with flame throwers held them off at the gates. Even downtown, a lot left untended for a season would be overgrown. In the wet months, blackberries spread so wildly, so rapidly that dogs and small children were sometimes engulfed and never heard from again. In the peak of the season, even adults dared not go berry picking without a military escort. Blackberry vines pushed up through solid concrete, forced their way into polite society, entwined the legs of virgins, and tried to loop themselves over passing clouds. The aggression, speed, roughness, and nervy upward mobility of blackberries symbolized for Max and Tilli everything they disliked about America, especially its frontier.
Bernard Mickey Wrangle took a yum approach.
To the King, during tea, Bernard had advocated the planting of blackberries on every building top in Seattle. They would require no care, aside from encouraging them, arborlike, to crisscross the streets, roof to roof; to arch, forming canopies, natural arcades, as it were. In no time at all, people could walk through the city in the downpouringest of winter and feel not a splat. Every shopper, every theater-goer, every cop on the beat, every snoozing bum would be snug and dry. The pale green illumination that filtered through the dome of vines could inspire a whole new school of painting: centuries from now, art critics might speak, as of chiaroscuro, of “blackberry light.” The vines would attract birds. Woodpeckers might not bother, but many birds would. The birds would sing. A bird full of berry pulp is like an Italian full of pathos. Small animals might move into the arches. “Look, Billy, up there, over the Dental Building. A badger!” And the fruit, mustn’t forget the fruit. It would nourish the hungry, stabilize the poor. The more enterprising winos could distill their own spirits. Seattle could become the Blackberry Brandy Capital of the World. Tourists would spend millions annually on Seattle blackberry pies, the discerning toast of the nation would demand to be spread with Seattle blackberry jam. The chefs at the French restaurants would dish up duck in purplish sauces, fill once rained-on noses with the baking aromas of gâteau mûre de ronce. The whores might become known, affectionately, as blackberry tarts. The Teamsters could try to organize the berry pickers. And in late summer, when the brambles were proliferating madly, growing faster than the

human eye can see, the energy of their furious growth could be hooked up to generators that, spinning with blackberry power, could supply electrical current for the entire metropolis. A vegetative utopia, that’s what it would be. Seattle, Berry Town, encapsulated, self-sufficient, thriving under a living ceiling, blossoms in its hair, juice on its chin, more blackberries-and more!- in its future. Consider the protection offered. What enemy paratroopers could get through the briars?
The King’s heart had rattled like spook chains in a horror show. Trembling, he had changed the subject to basketball.
“Oh-oh, spaghetti-o,” muttered Tilli under her breath.
Had the ink remained upright in its bottle, had the carpet’s innocence been preserved, it was still doubtful if Bernard would have been invited back to the palace.
Now, following Chihuahua slaughter and publicized arrest, it was futile for Leigh-Cheri to expect sympathy from her parents, let alone help. She wept against Gulietta’s bricklike breasts. And when the tear barrel was finally empty and every available frog had been consulted, she made-up, dressed-up, and caught a bus into town. She was going to keep an appointment with Bernard’s attorney. She was embracing the blackberry as her emblem, her symbol, her exemplar, her muse. In other words, she would persist to the wildest lengths of persistence. She was going to blackberry her way to her man.
48
THE SUBURBAN BUS let her off on First Avenue, a street as old as the city itself, though far younger than the tawdry commerce that for many Seattleites the very name of the street implied. A slim, steady rain was falling. Neon reflections on the wet concrete gave First Avenue the appearance of an underwater burial ground for parrots. As Leigh-Cheri walked south, the mood of the avenue grew increasingly rowdy. Mouth holes of saxophones and pistols gaped at her from pawnshop windows. “Adult” bookstores and porno cinemas promised further gapings. Smells of stale hot dogs and soaked mackinaws wafted by on zephyrs of exhaust. If she had drunk just one beer in each of the taverns she passed, she could have consumed a case in a very few blocks, but though beer, in its foamy neutrality, may have been the perfect beverage for the last quarter of the twentieth century, Leigh-Cheri did not drink beer and wouldn’t have drunk it in the Born to Lose Tavern, the Broken Jaw Tavern, or the Sailors Have More Fun Tavern if she did.
Passing a tattoo parlor, she paused to window-shop the mermaids,

screaming eagles, and macabre tributes to Mom. Through the raindrops that streaked the plate glass, she saw that phrase again, Born to Lose, this time on the tattoo artist’s flash card: Born to Lose, a slogan so expressive, so deeply relevant that men have it permanently etched into their hides, and she thought of her own flaccid biceps, imagining the slogan stenciled there. She wondered if one lost one’s royal privilege if one had one’s royal epidermis inscribed. She did know that once tattooed one could no longer expect to lie for all eternity in an orthodox Jewish cemetery. They wouldn’t even bury women with pierced ears. A strange theory of mutilation from the people who invented cutting the skin off the pee-pee.
The Princess walked on.
She met sailors who hunkered. She met lumberjacks who cursed. She met the original cast of the Food Stamp Opera, who tried to lure her up to their three-dollar hotel rooms, where the light bulbs were dying and the wallpaper was already dead. She met many winos. They were at various stages of wino development. Invariably, however, they seemed to have made peace with the rain, as if the wino ambassador had negotiated a treaty with the rulers of rain, a compromise henceforth known as the Tokay Accords. The Indian winos, in particular, were unhurried by the weather, and she recalled that Bernard had said, “White men watch clocks, but the clocks are watching the Indians.”
The Princess was wearing a yellow vinyl slicker with matching hat. It looked great with her red hair. She walked on.
First Avenue lay on an incline. Steeper toward the north. Traveling south, she moved downhill. Like the rainwater. Like the twentieth century. At the foot of First, where it crossed Yesler Way, there was a small cobblestoned square, watched over by the several wooden eyes of a totem pole. There, at Pioneer Square, the mood changed abruptly. Once as rough and raunchy as upper First Avenue, Pioneer Square had been hit by restoration. Now, art galleries, boutiques, and discos were replacing the storefront churches, and the déclassé luncheonettes were giving way to restaurants that featured imported mineral waters and a gay waiter behind every fern.
In Pioneer Square, where the seedy collided with the chic, was where Nina Jablonski had her law office. Being somewhat of radical temperament, Nina Jablonski had volunteered to defend Bernard Mickey Wrangle against the United States of America, although Mrs. Jablonski did not fully share her client’s view that he against the United States of America was a fair match. Actually, the Woodpecker regarded the contest a bit one-sided in his

favor, and he would have liked to take on Japan, East Germany, and the Arab nations as well.
Nina Jablonski had red hair. Not as red as Bernard’s or Leigh-Cheri’s, but definitely red, and the Princess was certain that it was on account of Jablonski’s hair, and perhaps the fact that she was seven months pregnant (he maintained a residue of regret about destroying the prospective male pill), that Bernard had agreed to allow her to defend him. Leigh-Cheri had to confess that she, too, was irrationally assured by Mrs. Jablonski’s tresses- a fellow victim of sugar and lust? another ally against Argon and the sun?- but the swell of the attorney’s belly merely reminded her that she herself hadn’t had a period since she left for Maui, an omission that made her as nervous as the Queen’s lapdog.
Ah, but there was good news! Jablonski, whose features were so strong that no amount of freckles could burden them, had been successful in her petition to have Bernard’s rights to be visited restored. Leigh-Cheri could go see him on the following Sunday, three days away.
“There are conditions, however,” said Jablonski, handing the Princess a tissue to mop up her happy tears. “Conditions set not by the court but by Mr. Wrangle and me.”
“Like what?” asked Leigh-Cheri.
“My dear, you must realize that your conversation will be bugged. For some reason, Mr. Wrangle is suspected of being involved in an international plot to return your father to the throne. Anything you might say regarding your family, or, for that matter, your personal relationship with Mr. Wrangle, might be misconstrued in such a manner as to deepen those suspicions, which would hurt our chances for a minimal sentence. I wanted to establish some safe guidelines for your conversation. Mr. Wrangle went one step further. He doesn’t feel it would be emotionally beneficial-for either one of you-to converse at all. He feels that poignant dialogue will merely make your separation all the more difficult. And he certainly doesn’t believe the CIA should be privy to the private tenderness you share. He does very much want to see you. And he longs to hear your voice. But he desires that nothing in the way of personal conversation pass between you.”
“But-what’ll I do? I can’t just sit there and talk about the rain on the fucking blackberries. What’ll I say?” (Tears of joy, exit stage right. Tears of bewilderment, enter stage left; advance to footlights.)
“Mr. Wrangle suggests that you tell him a story.”
“What? A story?”
“Yes, a story of some sort. He wishes to look at you. He wishes to hear

you speak. You’ll have ten minutes. Just tell him a story. I’m sure you’ll think of something.”
Leigh-Cheri stared at the antinuclear posters on the office wall. Nuclear power was one of the most sinister frauds ever perpetrated on the American people, and yet its implications meant little to her now.
Mrs. Jablonski removed her fashionably large spectacles and stood. “I asked Mr. Wrangle what you were like. He said you were hornet juice and rosebuds in a container of gazelle meat. He does speak colorfully, doesn’t he?”
Leigh-Cheri pulled on her dripping slicker and departed. As she sped back up First Avenue in a taxi-she was not in the mood for any more Born to Lose-she thought, “A story? I do know one story. I know one story. It’ll have to do.”

49
SO IT CAME PASS that on the next Sunday afternoon, a Sunday afternoon carved, like most Sunday afternoons, from a boiled turnip, Princess Leigh-Cheri sat in the austere visiting room at the King County Jail, separated from Bernard Mickey Wrangle by a panel of thick, clear glass, telling him, through a closed- circuit telephone, a story, the story, the story that Gulietta had told her at bedtime almost every night of her life.
They gazed at one another with fixed, intense smiles; their pulses fluttered, and the ancient hormonal soup hissed in their glands, yet Bernard was silent, and Leigh-Cheri, in a surprisingly even tone, stuck to the story. No sooner had she sat down across from him, her lips aching to pucker their way through the glass, than she picked up the phone and spoke into it bravely, “Once upon a time . . .” He noticed that she had put on a few pounds, she noticed that some of his freckles looked as if they’d gone bad, but they didn’t betray their observations. He listened intently, and she went on with the tale.
“Once upon a time. . . .” Just the way Gulietta would have begun, although in Gulietta’s language, “Once upon a time” sounded as if it were a rubber apple on which some barnyard animal was choking.
“Once upon a time, a long time ago, when it was still of some use to wish for the thing one wanted, there lived a king whose daughters all were beautiful, but the youngest was so lovely that the sun itself, who had seen so much and forgotten so little, simply marveled each time it shone on her face.
“This daughter had a favorite plaything, a golden ball, that she loved dearly. When the days were hot, she would go out into the dark forest near the palace and spend many an hour tossing and catching her golden ball in the shade of a leafy tree. There was a spring in the forest, and usually the princess played near the brink of the spring so that when her play made her thirsty she might take a cool drink.
“Now it happened one day that the golden ball, instead of falling back into the maiden’s little hands, dropped to the ground and bounced into the spring. The princess followed the ball with her eyes as it sank, but the spring was very deep, and it soon sank out of sight. The bottom of the spring could not be seen. Thereupon she began to cry, and she wailed louder and louder as if her little heart were broken.
“While she was lamenting in this way, she heard a throaty voice call to her. ‘Hey, now, king’s daughter, what is the matter? I’ve never heard anyone cry so hard.’
“She looked around to see where the voice came from, but all she saw was a frog, holding its fat, ugly head out of the water. ‘Oh, it’s you, you old croaker,’

she said. ‘Well, if you must know, I’m crying because my wonderful golden ball has fallen into the spring and has sunk so deeply I’ll never get it out.’ ”
‘Relax, don’t cry. I think I can be of some assistance. What will you give me if I can recover your toy for you?’ ”
‘Oh, anything, anything. Whatever you’d like most, dear frog. My fine clothes, my pearls, my carriage, even the bejeweled crown I wear.’
“The frog replied, ‘I have no use whatsoever for your clothes or your pearls or even your crown, but I’ll tell you what. If you will care for me and let me be your playmate and companion, let me sit beside you at your little table, eat from your little plate, drink from your little cup, and sleep in your little bed beside you, if you will promise me that, then I will dive straight down and bring back your golden ball.’
“The princess stopped weeping immediately. ‘Of course,’ she said. ‘Of course. I promise you anything you want if you’ll only bring back the ball.’ But she thought, ‘What nonsense that silly creature talks. As if he could do anything but swim and croak with the other frogs, as if he could possibly be anyone’s companion!’
“The frog, however, as soon as he heard the promise, drew his green head under the water and sank down out of sight in the spring. After what seemed like a long while, he surfaced with a splash, the golden ball in his wide mouth. He threw the ball onto the grass.
“Needless to say, the king’s daughter was overjoyed to have her ball back. She scooped it up, and tossing it and catching it, she ran off with it toward the palace.
“ ‘Stop, stop!’ cried the frog. ‘Pick me up, too. I can’t run as fast as you.’
“His pleas were futile, however, for croak as he might, she paid no attention. She hurried on home and before long, forgot completely about the poor frog, who was left, presumably, to go on living in the spring.
“The next day, as the princess was sitting at table with the king and all the court, having a fine dinner, there came a pitter-patter up the marble stairs, and then there came a knocking at the door and a voice crying, ‘King’s youngest daughter, let me in!”
“Naturally, the princess went to the door to see who it might be, but when she found the frog sitting there, panting, she slammed the door in his face and returned to her meal, feeling quite uneasy.
“Noticing that she was acting a bit strange and that her heart was beating quickly, the king said, ‘My child, what are you afraid of? Was there a giant at the door wanting to take you away?”
“ ‘No,’ answered she. ‘No giant, just a nasty frog.’ ”

‘Really? And what does the frog want?’ asked the king.
“Tears began spilling out of the youngest daughter’s eyes. She broke down and told her father everything that had happened the previous day at the spring. When she had finished, she added, ‘And now he is here, outside the door, and he wants to come in to me.’
“Then they all heard the frog knocking again, and crying out: King’s youngest daughter,
Open to me!
By the deep spring water
What promised you me?
“ ‘That which you have promised you must always honor and perform,’ said the king sternly. ‘Go at once and let him in.’
“So she went and opened the door. The frog hopped in, following at her heels until she reached her chair. Then he looked up at her and said, ‘Lift me up to sit by you.’ But she delayed lifting him up until the king ordered her to.
“No sooner was the frog in the chair than he demanded to get up on the table, where he sat, looking about hungrily. ‘Push your plate a little nearer so that we can eat together,’ he said.
“Reluctantly, she did it, and the frog feasted heartily, although for her part, every morsel seemed to stick in her throat.
“ ‘I’m stuffed,’ said the frog at last. ‘And I’m tired. You must carry me to your room and make ready your silken bed so that we can lie down and sleep.’
“The princess began to fret and moan and cry and complain. She didn’t want that cold, creepy frog in her pretty, clean bed. The king became angry with her. ‘You made a promise in a time of need,’ he said. ‘Now, as unpleasant as it might be, you must honor it.’
“Making a terrible face, she picked up the frog and carried him upstairs, where she placed him on some soiled linen in a corner. Then she slipped into bed. Before she could fall asleep, however, the frog came pitter-patter up to her bedside. ‘Let me in with you or I will tell your father,’ he said.
“She had had enough. Flying into a rage, she grabbed the frog. ‘Get out of my life, you slimy frog!’ she shouted. With all her strength, she threw him against the wall.
“When he fell to the floor, he was no longer a frog. He had become a prince with kind eyes and a beautiful smile. The frog prince took her hand and told her how a vengeful witch had bound him by her spells and how the princess alone, in her innocent beauty, could have released him. Then he asked her to marry him, which, with her father’s consent, she did. And they went off to the prince’s country, where they became king and queen and lived happily ever after.”

As the story ended, the way that even that unhappy fartre Sartre knows that stories ought to end, a guard strode up to Bernard and tapped him on the shoulder, signaling him to return to his cell. Bernard appeared to be lost in thought. He continued to stare at Leigh-Cheri, smiling all the while, and ignoring the guard. The guard gripped him by the collar-which wasn’t black-and yanked him to his feet. It was too much for Leigh-Cheri. Shrieking, she sprang up and flattened herself against the window, as if she spread herself thin enough she could squish through the loose-knit silicone molecules the way that mayonnaise squishes through the holes in Swiss cheese. Bernard elbowed the guard in the jaw and seized the telephone. He was going to speak to her! Quickly, she picked up the phone on her side of the glass and jammed it against her ear. A whistle had been blown, more guards were rushing up, and she realized that he would be able to get out only a word or two. “Yes, sweetheart, yes?”
“Whatever happened to the golden ball?” asked Bernard.
That’s what he said. “Whatever happened to the golden ball? Argggg!” And then they wrestled him from the room.
50
OVER THE YEARS, Leigh-Cheri had had some questions about the story herself. Mainly, she wondered why the handsome prince would want to marry a lying little amphibiaphobe who couldn’t keep a promise. Leigh-Cheri had thought that frogs became princes through the transformative magic of osculation. Why did this prince escape the frog spell only after being splattered against a wall? Was he a masochist, maybe? In which case, it was small wonder that he was attracted to such an ill-tempered snip, and they probably did live together happily ever after, perhaps with leather accessories.
In truth, the story had never made a lot of sense to Leigh-Cheri, and she resented the Brothers Grimm for portraying a princess in such an unflattering light. It was bad enough being dragon bait. For all her reservations about the tale, however, it had never occurred to her to puzzle over the fate of the golden ball. True, the story initially made a big deal about the ball, only never to mention it again, but it was the characters who were important, the ball was just a prop, a toy, an object.
Maybe the princess put aside the golden ball until her own children were old enough to play with it, or maybe once she had a prince to play with she simply abandoned her beloved toy (she was certainly capable of that), and it got packed away in an attic, thrown out with the garbage, stolen by a chambermaid, or donated to Goodwill Industries. In any case, Leigh-Cheri had never been curious about it, and the psychiatrists and mythologists who’d analyzed the story-they claimed the spring ("so deep its bottom could not be seen") symbolized the

unconscious mind; the frog, of course (talk about typecasting), symbolized the penis, ugly and loathsome to a girl-child, but to an emerging woman a thing of some beauty that could contribute to her happiness and fulfillment-those analysts were sure that the golden ball represented the moon, but they never asked what became of it, either.
It was Bernard who’d raised the question, and in the empty days that followed their jailhouse meeting, Leigh-Cheri wondered why it seemed so important to him. The CIA wondered, also. The CIA suspected that the story was a coded message packed with information about revolutionary activity in Max and Tilli’s former kingdom. The CIA submitted its tape of the story-and Bernard’s apparently urgent response-to its experts in the home office. Attorney Nina Jablonski lamented the fact that of all the stories Leigh-Cheri might have told, she had chosen one about a royal family in which a king and queen ended up happily ever after. Because of the CIA monitors, Jablonski refused to ask Bernard why he was interested in the fate of the golden ball, although Leigh- Cheri requested that she do so. “We’re dropping the ball,” Jablonski said flatly.
As a result of the fracas with the guards, Bernard’s visitor privileges were revoked. Moreover, accounts of the incident were leaked to the press. Whereas the media had been politely interested in a beautiful young princess who wished to enlist deposed royalty in the service of environmentalism, they were savagely intrigued by a beautiful young princess who was involved, politically, romantically, or both with a notorious bomb-throwing outlaw. If the Furstenberg-Barcalona monogrammed telephone had, the previous week, frequently tinkled, it now exhausted itself in a monstrous marathon of jangling, although it sometimes could not be heard above the knockings at the door. Were it not for the blackberries, reporters would have camped in the yard.
Max was in a funk due to the constant interruption of his TV sportscasts, and both Tilli and her new Chihuahua developed nervous diarrhea. Chuck was going bananas trying to intercept all the phone calls and to photograph with a miniature camera the strangers, mostly newsmen, who rapped at the door. Gulietta kept the house running fairly smoothly, everything considered, but she had begun to toot cocaine so prodigiously that often her central nervous system was buzzing in pace with the phone. Oddly enough, Leigh-Cheri was the calmest member of the household. In part, this could be attributed to the love that enveloped her like a silk-lined fever, but it was also due to the fact that on Wednesday, two weeks late; out of breath; embarrassed but making no excuses; flustered but offering no explanations, her menses showed up. It neither called first nor knocked, but stepped through her door, sticky, mortal, its head as red as her own, remained for five days, then disappeared again, leaving behind an exhibition of cheerfully

painted tampons and a sustained series of sighs of relief that could have fluttered the flags of every used-car lot in Los Angeles.
In celebration of the proven effectiveness of She-Link, Leigh-Cheri sent out for Chinese food. Chuck snapped a whole roll of film of the Oriental boy who delivered it. “Someday, when conditions are right, I’ll have Bernard’s baby,” thought Leigh-Cheri, chewing a mouthful of fried rice. “and it can have a golden ball to play with, or anything else its daddy gives it except dynamite. But for now . . .”
For now, her energy was devoted to pestering Nina Jablonski about schemes to see Bernard again before his trial. Jablonski didn’t have the heart to tell her that there wasn’t going to be any trial.
51
ON LEIGH-CHERI’S BIRTHDAY, Guilietta baked a chocolate cake and sank twenty candles into the frosting. Although they were too peeved with their daughter to promote a celebration, Max and Tilli appeared at the big oak table in the dining room, where the cake was lit up like an oil refinery, long enough to sing the traditional anthem. They lingered until, with a desperate expulsion, the Princess puffed out the candles. “Zee vhole vorld knows vat her weesh vas,” complained Tilli to her pooch.
Twenty candles on a cake. Twenty Camels in a package. Twenty centuries under our belts and where do we go from here?
For her part, Leigh-Cheri went back downtown and called on Nina Jablonski. “You have chocolate on your face,” said the attorney.
“It’s my birthday,” said Leigh-Cheri.
“Then let me buy you a drink.”
They went to a fern bar and ordered champagne cocktails. “To justice,” said Jablonski.
“To love,” said Leigh-Cheri.
“You’ve got it bad, sister.”
“No, I’ve got it good.” The Princess downed her champagne cocktail and ordered a tequila mocking-bird. “Tell me, Nina, you’ve been married for several years-”
“Twice. Twice for several years.”
“Well, do you think it’s possible to make love stay?”
“Sure. It’s not at all unusual for love to remain for a lifetime. It’s passion that
doesn’t last. I still love my first husband. But I don’t desire him. Love lasts. It’s lust that moves out on us when we’re not looking, it’s lust that always skips town-and love without lust just isn’t enough.”
“Anybody can fuck anybody, Nina. But how many people can play together

in the fields of true love?”
“Jeez. You make true love sound like some kind of elitist picnic. That’s a
smug misconception. Love, of all emotions, is democratic.”
Leigh-Cheri got the notion that Jablonski was chiding her for her monarchal
background. She didn’t care. “Oh,” she said, “I’m not so sure about that. I have an idea that love is a lot more exclusive than popular songs have led us to believe. Now lust, lust is democratic, all right. Lust makes itself accessible to any clod or clone who can muster enough voltage to secrete a hormone. But like you say, it doesn’t stick around for long. Maybe lust gets fed up with democracy after a while, maybe lust just gets bored with the way it’s spent by mediocre people. Maybe both lust and love demand something more than most of us have the stomach for. These days, certainly, folks seem more concerned with furthering careers than with furthering romance.”
“You say you’re twenty today?”
The Princess registered the lawyer’s insinuations of immaturity, but though she was unfamiliar with neoteny, she didn’t care about that, either. “Yes, I’m twenty, and, can you believe it, I have no idea how old Bernard is. He has at least a dozen driver’s licenses, each one under a different name and a different age.” With ecological soundness, she diverted into her throat a quantity of tequila that otherwise might have been left to stagnate or poured down the drain to poison the fishes. “Have you ever wondered what kind of driver’s licenses they have on the planet Argon?”
“I think you better let me call you a cab.” Jablonski gave Leigh-Cheri that uncomfortable half-amused, half-resentful look that people always give you when they’re remaining sober and you are getting looped.
As a matter of fact, Jablonski had begun to look increasingly at Bernard in that same fashion, although a rabbi’s dog could score pork chops in the streets of Tel Aviv easier than Bernard could acquire tequila in the King County Jail. Jablonski had come to believe that Bernard simply had too much fun. It was one thing to be a bomber, quite another to enjoy it. “Fighting the system is serious business,” the lawyer had reminded her client. “It’s serious business that creates the system,” answered Bernard. He seemed to regard his impending trial as a party the government was throwing for his amusement, to look forward to it the way a frustrated amateur actor awaits the annual skit at the Elks Club. Eventually, Jablonski decided that it would best serve her client, as well as radicalism in America, if a trial (due to changes in the social climate since Bernard’s previous conviction, the judiciary had offered him a new trial) could be avoided. She asked Bernard if he would mind pleading guilty. He was delighted. “If society is considered innocent, then any person who isn’t guilty

isn’t leading a meaningful life,” he said. “Besides, an outlaw is guilty by definition.” She took his admission of guilt into plea bargaining, where she traded it for a reduced sentence. It was all arranged at a meeting with the prosecutor in the judge’s private chambers.
“Nina,” said Leigh-Cheri, her birthday blood swarming with the liquid locusts of libation, “you’ve got to get me to him before the trial. And we’ve got to get him out, even if I have to blast him out.”
“Hush!” Jablonski glanced around the bar. “Don’t ever so much as mention blasting, not even in a joke. Sister, listen, I’ve got some good news. Bernard isn’t going to have to stand trial. He’s being transferred to McNeil Island. Tomorrow morning. To begin serving a ten-year sentence. That means he’ll be eligible for parole in only twenty months.”
Twenty candles on a cake. Twenty Camels in a pack. Twenty months in the federal pen. Twenty shots of tequila down a young girl’s gullet. Twenty centuries since Our Lord’s last pratfall, and after all that time we still don’t know where passion goes when it goes.
52
A WOODPECKER’S MOVEMENT around a tree trunk defines a perfect spiral. To connect the hoppity helix of the woodpecker to the macrocosmic spiral of our stellar system or to the microcosmic spiral of the DNA molecule or, for that matter, to the hundreds of natural spirals in between-snail shells, crowns of daisies and sunflowers, fingerprints, cyclones, etc.-may be assigning to geometry more meaning than the mundane can abide. Suffice to say that a woodpecker is first on one side of a tree and then the other; disappearing, then reappearing at a point slightly higher up the trunk.
Bernard Mickey Wrangle had disappeared again, this time into the maximum security wing of McNeil Island Federal Penitentiary, but nobody, with the possible exception of Princess Leigh-Cheri, was expecting him to reappear any time close to soon. True, he could be paroled in twenty months, if he behaved, but who could expect Bernard to behave? Certainly not officials at McNeil. They isolated him in solitary confinement. The only person permitted to see him there was Nina Jablonski, and she saw him only once because he fired her when he found himself imprisoned without the fun of a trial. Jablonski explained that if tried he could have been made to serve the remainder of his previous thirty-year sentence plus time for his escape, or he could have drawn a new sentence that was nearly as bad, particularly had he turned the courtroom into some outlandish celebration of outlawism as he had been hinting he would do. “You’re lucky,” said Jablonski. “You could come out of McNeil looking more like a bald eagle than a woodpecker. This way, I’m going to have you back in circulation while

your hair’s still red.” Bernard thanked her for her concern, but he felt betrayed, nonetheless, and he dismissed her. “That’s the trouble with political people,” he said. “There’s not one of you, left, right, or center, who doesn’t believe that the means are justified by the end.”
With that, he spiraled out of view.
On the day of his transfer to McNeil, the Seattle Post-Intelligencer had published a one-column picture of him, grinning, as usual, as if mouthing a pulpy newsprint “yum,” his snaggleteeth and freckles ghosted out but his eyes frictional, even in gray ink, with the special hungers of the terminally alive. Leigh-Cheri tore the picture out of the paper and pressed it beneath her hangover pillow. It did little, if anything, to relieve her headache-her temples were banging like her daddy’s valve-but during the night she awoke to the unmistaken sound of the chipmunk that lives at the center of the earth, and it seemed unusually close to her ear.
53
THAT YEAR, spring came to the Puget Sound country as it frequently does, like a bride’s maid climbing a greased pole. After a gradual, precarious ascent, spring, in a triumph of frills and blooms and body heat, would seem to have finally arrived, only to suddenly slide down into the mud again, leaving winter’s wet flag flapping stiffly and singularly at the top of the seasonal staff. Then, girlish bosom heaving, spring would shinny slowly back up the pole.
When Leigh-Cheri took to bed with her hangover, spring was riding high. She arose two days later to an unseasonal frost. It had numbed the bejeepers out of insects and buds. It had thrown the fear of February into batteries and birds. So inanimate was Prince Charming that Leigh-Cheri believed him deceased, although when the first sunbeam to drill through the window frost caused his flipper to twitch, she sat the terrarium in front of an open oven and watched as he stoically revived. It was the middle of April. Except for the faithful who are always sounding alarms about the return of the Ice Age, nobody in the Pacific Northwest was prepared for such a frost.
Down in Pioneer Square, where the Princess bussed for one last meeting with Nina Jablonski, frosty cobblestones gave the area the appearance of a marshmallow plantation. Shrubs and winos seemed startled in the morning light. Even the D-note of the ferry horn had a frosty edge as it blared up from the waterfront. As for the manholes, they looked as if they’d been snorting cocaine. The manholes, Leigh-Cheri noted, bore an enlarged resemblance to Gulietta’s nostrils of late. Leigh-Cheri had been waiting to catch Gulietta when she wasn’t buzzed so that she might ask the old woman if she knew whatever happened to the golden ball, but such an opportunity hadn’t presented itself.

Leigh-Cheri was dressed warmly in a heavy green sweater and jeans, yet she was inadequately insulated for the coolness of Jablonski’s response when she revealed to the attorney her new plans. Jablonski called the Princess selfish, frivolous, narcissistic, indulgent, and immature.
“The monarchy of Mu was a half-assed idea,” said Jablonski. “It would never have worked because all those dethroned kings and deposed duchesses own chunks of the big corporations whose excessive profits are threatened by a clean, healthy environment. It’d never work, but at least it was a move in the right direction, at least it was a decent impulse, an attempt to get yourself involved with something more important than your own emotions. This, however . . .”
“You don’t think love is as important as ecology?”
“I think ecology is love.”
On the campus of Outlaw College, professors of essential insanities would
characterize the conflicting attitudes of Nina Jablonski and Leigh-Cheri as indicative of a general conflict between social idealism and romanticism. As any of the learned professors would explain, plied with sufficient tequila, no matter how fervently a romantic might support a movement, he or she eventually must withdraw from active participation in that movement because the group ethic-the supremacy of the organization over the individual-is an affront to intimacy. Intimacy is the principal source of the sugars with which this life is sweetened. It is absolutely vital to the essential insanities. Without the essential (intimate) insanities, humor becomes inoffensive and therefore pap, poetry becomes exoteric and therefore prose, eroticism becomes mechanical and therefore pornography, behavior becomes predictable and therefore easy to control. As for magic, there’s none at all because the aim of any social activist is power over others, whereas a magician seeks power over only himself: the power of higher consciousness, which, while universal, cosmic even, is manifest in the intimate. It would seem that a whole human being would have the capacity for both intimacy and social action, yet sad to say, every cause, no matter how worthy, eventually falls prey to the tyranny of the dull mind. In the movement, as in the bee house or the white ant’s hill of clay, there is no place for idiosyncrasy, let alone mischief.
A romantic, however, recognizes that the movement, the organization, the institution, the revolution, if it comes to that, is merely a backdrop for his or her own personal drama and that to pretend otherwise is to surrender freedom and will to the totalitarian impulse, is to replace psychological reality with sociological illusion, but such truth never penetrates the Glo-Coat of righteous conviction that surrounds the social idealist when he or she is identifying with

the poor or the exploited. Since, on a socio-economic level, there are myriad wrongs that need to be righted, a major problem for the species seems to be how to assist the unfortunate, throttle the corrupt, preserve the biosphere, and effectively organize for socio-economic alteration without the organization being taken over by dullards, the people who, ironically, are best suited to serving organized causes since they seldom have anything more imaginative to do and, restricted by tunnel vision, probably wouldn’t do it if they had.
Dullards can put a pox on the most glorious moral enterprise by using that enterprise as a substitute for spiritual and sexual unfolding. Finally, it is dullness and not evil that begets totalitarianism, although some at Outlaw College go so far as to contend that dullness is evil. Of course, whether something is dull can be a matter of taste (one person’s ennui is another person’s coronary), and there are a lot of ostensibly boring chores that somebody has to attend to, but when you bring that up to a scholar at Outlaw C., you’ll find the sucker has just resigned in order to enter business in Tijuana, is too stoned to talk, has been arrested on some complicated charge, or is up to his mustache in a love affair and doesn’t wish to be disturbed. Well, we don’t need any help from those guys to see that Leigh-Cheri, once resplendent with social idealism, had fallen off a dream cliff, slipped into the vision pit, or nibbled forbidden fruit, because Nina Jablonski’s declaration that a lover is one who first of all loves the earth simply didn’t move her. All she wanted from the lawyer was a detailed description of Bernard’s cell.
“It’s small but big enough to stretch his legs in, so they don’t have to take him out for exercise. There’s nothing in it but a steel cot with a piece of foam rubber on top. That’s it. Guards shove in a piss pot two times a day. Ten minutes later, I think it’s ten minutes, they remove it. Once a week they take him to a stall next door where he can shower.”
“Any windows?”
“One tiny one, with bars on it, up near the ceiling. It lets in a little daylight, but you can’t see out of it.”
“Electric lighting?”
“A single bulb in the ceiling. Far too high to reach.”
“What wattage?”
“How the hell would I know? I’d guess forty.”
The Princess smiled mysteriously. She remembered that Bernard had told her
that the light of a full moon was equivalent to a forty-watt bulb at fifteen feet. “Anything else?”
“Nothing. No books, no magazines, nothing. Except a pack of cigarettes.” Again, Leigh-Cheri smiled. “Yes, he smokes Camels when he’s in jail. He

said that when you’re locked up, smoking a cigarette is like having a friend.” “Well, it’s a lonesome friendship in this case, because he’s not smoking. He demanded cigarettes, it’s a prisoner’s right, but they won’t let him smoke them.
The pack hasn’t even been opened.”
“Why won’t they let him smoke?”
“Because they’re afraid if he gets his hands on any fire, he’ll make a bomb.” “Outta what? A cot? Foam rubber? His clothes? A pack of cigarettes?” “Listen, sister, your lover has a reputation. They say the son-of-a-bitch can
make a bomb out of anything.”
On her return trip up First Avenue, where the bride’s maid was overtaking
the frost on the pole, Leigh-Cheri ducked into the Born to Lose Tavern and purchased a pack of Camels.
54
BERNARD MICKEY WRANGLE’S
FAVORITE HOMEMADE
BOMB RECIPES
THE HEARTS AND DIAMONDS BOMB:
Take a deck of ordinary playing cards, the old-fashioned paper kind, cut out
the red spots and soak them overnight like beans. Alcohol is the best soaking solution, but tap water will suffice. Plug one end of a short length of pipe. Pack the soggy hearts and diamonds into the pipe. One pre-plastic playing cards, the red spots were printed with a diazo dye, a chemical that has an unstable, high- energy bond with nitrogen. So you’ve got some nitro, of sorts, now you’ll be needing glycerin. Hand lotion will work nicely. Glug a little lotion into the pipe. To activate the quasi-nitroglycerin, you’ll require potassium permanganate. That you can find in the snake-bite section of any good first-aid chest. Add a dash of the potassium permanganate and plug the other end of the pipe. Heat the pipe. A direct flame is best, but simply laying the pipe atop a hot radiator will turn the trick. Take cover! The Woodpecker used a hearts and diamonds bomb to release himself from McNeil Island the first time that he was confined there.
THE DRAINO REEFER BOMB:
Acquire a can of Draino or any similar household product that contains a high concentration of lye. Roll the Draino in a length of aluminum foil, as if you were rolling a reefer. If you’re serious about wanting an explosion, you’ll have to submerge the reefer in water. In jail, the ideal place for submersion is a toilet tank. When wet lye reacts with aluminum, hydrogen is released in the form of gas. A spark will ignite it. Taking cover is difficult with this kind of explosive. Don’t lose your head.
THE JUG BAND BOMB:

You’ll need gasoline for this one, but only a few drops. When Bernard was on work detail washing the sheriff’s car, he siphoned enough through a soda straw in five seconds to buy his way out of Cody, Wyoming, forever. Squirt the gasoline drops into a clean jug, the glass type in which cider is sold. Cap the jug and roll it around so that the inside is coated with the gasoline. Let the gasoline evaporate. Once again, you’ll be requiring a snake-bite kit for its supply of potassium permanganate (in this world, snakes take many forms, and if you aren’t adept at charming them, you must be prepared to counteract their venom). Add a pinch of the p.p. and quickly recap the jug. Roll the jug across the room with enough force so that it will break when it strikes the opposite wall. Goodbye wall. This is a high explosive.
THE FRUIT LOOPS AND BATSHIT BOMB:
A Woodpecker original. Sugar is an unstable chemical that loves to oxidize as passionately as sulfur does and in much the same way. In preparing this dish, think of sugar as sulfur. The components of gun-powder are sulfur, carbon, and saltpeter. Fruit Loops, or any similar breakfast cereal, contains a good deal of sugar and carbon. (Bernard endorses Fruit Loops for bombs. For his morning repast, he prefers Wheaties. With beer.) As for saltpeter (potassium nitrate), batshit is a perfect source. If batshit is unavailable, bird doo will do. The older the guano the better. Aesthetic as well as pragmatic considerations make the fresh wet splat inadvisable. Grind up the Fruit Loops. Mix in the batshit thoroughly. When mixing Fruit Loops and batshit, don’t be surprised if you find the color attractive. In fact, you may end up with a clearer understanding of art and its origins. For that reason, this is the bomb recommended to reviewers and critics. Place the mixture in a container and ignite it. Gunpowder, contrary to what you might expect, is not much of a boomer. The Fruit Loops and batshit bomb won’t flatten any buildings, but it makes a marvelous amount of smoke. Certainly it makes more smoke than a pack of Camels. That is, it makes more smoke than a pack of Camels unless . . . unless the missing race of redheaded Argonians gets its message across.
55
WITH A BUCKET OF BLACK PAINT, Leigh-Cheri went up to the attic. She blacked out the windows, except for one small pane in the east. Into the overhead fixture, she screwed a forty-watt bulb. She cleared out the royal dressmaking dummy, Christmas tree decorations, and trunks of monogrammed junk. She moved in a chamber pot and a cot. The cot had a foam rubber mattress, the pot would be emptied by Gulietta twice a day. Gulietta, also twice daily, would bring in a plate of food. “Starchy food,” ordered Leigh-Cheri. “I want to eat like he eats."

In vain, the King and Queen tried to reason with her. “It’s no wonder people lack romance in their lives,” said the Princess. “Love belongs to those who are willing to go to extremes for it. Goodbye.”
Tilli and Max listened to the attic door slam. To Max, the door sounded like the crack of a bat when the opposition has hit a homerun to beat the Mariners in the bottom of the ninth. His heart, which would never win another pennant, cracked a tinny bat of its own. “Oh-Oh spaghetti-o,” said Tilli. She did not elaborate.
Briefly, they discussed seeking professional help for the Princess, but King Max was one of those who believed that psychology was at that point in its development that surgery was at when it was practiced by barbers, so the idea was abandoned. Max put his arm halfway around his wife-halfway was as far as he could reach-and they walked out on the porch and stared at the blackberries. The blackberries, if little else in the last quarter of the twentieth century except killer bees and Arabs, were on the move.
Here, it might be worth mentioning that Bernard Mickey Wrangle, while in agreement with the King’s opinion of the profession of psychology, had developed a psychological test of his own. It was short, simple and, to the mind of its creator, infallible. To administer the test, merely ask the subject to name his or her favorite Beatle. If you are at all familiar with the distinct separate public images of the four Beatles, then you’ll recognize that the one chosen- John, Paul, George, or Ringo-reveals as much about the subject’s personality as most of us will ever hope to know.
56
LEIGH-CHERI PACED THE FLOOR. She sat on the cot. She gave to foam rubber its first imprint in history of a royal behind. She walked to the windows and looked into the black. She tried out the chamber pot, although she really had nothing to contribute. She lay on the cot. Ceiling ceiling ceiling. She turned over. Floor floor floor. She got up and, like a vacuum cleaner with insomnia, roamed the room some more. For three days, she did such things. Perhaps she was coming to terms with the space, although surely she realized that space is merely a device to prevent everything from being in the same spot.
On the fourth day, she decided to think, in an organized manner, about the problem of romance. “When we’re incomplete, we’re always searching for somebody to complete us. When, after a few years or a few months of a relationship, we find that we’re still unfulfilled, we blame our partners and take up with somebody more promising. This can go on and on-series polygamy-until we admit that while a partner can add sweet dimensions to our lives, we, each of us, are responsible for our own fulfillment. Nobody else can provide it for us,

and to believe otherwise is to delude ourselves dangerously and to program for eventual failure every relationship we enter. Hey, that’s pretty good. If I had pencil and paper, I’d write that down.” Alas, she had no pencil, while the roll of paper that sat by the chamber pot was destined for a different end.
Next, she thought, “When two people meet and fall in love, there’s a sudden rush of magic. Magic is just naturally present then. We tend to feed on that gratuitous magic without striving to make any more. One day we wake up and find that the magic is gone. We hustle to get it back, but by then it’s usually too late, we’ve used it up. What we have to do is work like hell at making additional magic right from the start. It’s hard work, especially when it seems superfluous or redundant, but if we can remember to do it, we greatly improve our chances of making love stay.” She was unsure if that idea was profound or trite. She was only sure that it mattered.
Then, she thought, “The mystics say that as soon as you give it up, you can have it. That may be true, but who wants it when you don’t want it.”
Leigh-Cheri tried to think more thoughts about romance. Her mind wandered. Toward dawn of the fifth day, she masturbated.
It was unintentional. She meant only to test herself for signs of numbness, atrophy, shrinkage, aridity. As the damp genital spark flashed from her fingertips, her little hand withdrew in surprise. Cautiously, it returned. It met no resistance. It slithered through the folds of saltmeat and peach. It pressed the seaweed trigger.
Afterward, she was depressed. She felt that she had violated the purity of her hermitage. Try as she might, she could not imagine Bernard masturbating in his cell. Bernard didn’t require an ad agency to tell him the difference between the sponsor’s product and Brand X. Bernard wouldn’t accept an ignominious substitute. Those cherubs that circle, in an aurora of blue light, the rocking bed of true lovers, those angels do not fly for masturbators. In the future, she would try to channel her sexual energy into something more elevating than the do-it- yourself orgasm.
But what?
She tried to name the fifty states and their capitals, but she could never get past South Dakota. She tried to name the nine planets in our solar system and was bewildered to find that she could name ten, counting Argon. She tried to remember why George Harrison was her favorite Beatle-surely it was his sincerity, his deep spirituality, his compassion for suffering humanity-only to discover that for some reason she now preferred the rebellious explorer John Lennon. She played a game in which she was given the power to pass one law to which every person in the world must adhere. What law would she lay down?

What one law could change the world? You couldn’t force people to love their neighbors as themselves. There already were laws against killing, yet murders continued. Certainly, to make the internal combustion engine illegal would improve things enormously, but how long before industry would put a nuclear- powered car in every radioactive garage? Suppose she made everything illegal. Then everybody would be outlaws. Would Bernard be delighted or horrified? In another game, she could give Academy Awards to the movies of her choice, the films that really deserved them. She quickly ran out of candidates and began fantasizing a movie. She only knew one plot, however, and she could never quite handle the scene in which the frog was dashed against the wall. Besides, whatever happened to the golden ball?
Her fantasies gave way to dreams. Or was it the other way around? In either case, she lay on the cot for days and didn’t open her eyes. Gulietta shook her. “Are you dyink?” the old woman asked. “Zee Queen vants to know,” Gulietta said, parroting Tilli, “eef you are dyink.” “Oh no,” answered Leigh-Cheri dreamily. “Tell mama I am living. Living for love.” She fell immediately back into communion with her private totem, a beast that was both frog and woodpecker, and, sometimes, too, the chipmunk that runs its little buns off at the center of the earth.
Time passed. It must have been a week. Maybe longer. Then, one evening she awoke, clearheaded and refreshed. She stood up and stretched. She jogged around the attic a few times. She bent down and touched her toes. With a sharp appetite, she devoured the soy burger and mashed potatoes on her dinner tray. She put the chamber pot to its proper use. She sat down on the cot. “Yes, I’m alive,” she said. “Alive for love.” She felt fine, although she had to confess she could still feel on her neck the tepid breath of boredom.
At that moment, something caught her eye. Something snagged the hem of her vision and yanked it like a child. A moon ray had penetrated the one clear pane and was illuminating an object. She walked over and picked the object up. For the first time, she took account of the pack of Camels.
57
THE TEMPLES, the minarets, the oasis, the pyramids, the camel itself filtered through her vision without being seen. Her orbs, as if conditioned by years of literacy, settled on the message that federal law required the manufacturer to publish on the left side panel of the package.
Warning: The Surgeon General Has Determined That Cigarette Smoking Is Dangerous to Your Health.
. . . typeface, blue ink, background as white as the eye skin around her blue irises, as white as the library rug used to be.

In her mind, clumps of tumors bloomed; soft pink lungs took on the appearance of charred firewood; grotesque tubers, oozing blood and spore jelly, spread like mushrooms across an unsuspecting lawn; arteries withered like the tendrils of parched orchids; clots resembling rotten tomatoes or the brains of diseased monkeys choked the organism, each clot emitting faint wisps of smoke from a combustion that would not die until the organism died.
Leigh-Cheri grunted in disgust. “Yuk,” she said aloud, exercising the alternate mantra. “Bernard claims that a cigarette is a friend when you’re locked away. With friends like these, who needs enemies?”
To the Princess, it was an enigma why anyone would smoke, yet the answer seems simple enough when we station ourselves at that profound interface of nature and culture formed when people take something from the natural world and incorporate it into their bodies.
Three of the four elements are shared by all creatures, but fire was a gift to humans alone. Smoking cigarettes is as intimate as we can become with fire without immediate excruciation. Every smoker is an embodiment of Prometheus, stealing fire from the gods and bringing it on back home. We smoke to capture the power of the sun, the pacify Hell, to identify with the primordial spark, to feed on the marrow of the volcano. It’s not the tobacco we’re after but the fire. When we smoke, we are performing a version of the fire dance, a ritual as ancient as lightning.
Does that mean that chain smokers are religious fanatics? You must admit there’s a similarity.
The lung of the smoker is a naked virgin thrown as a sacrifice into the godfire.
58
HAVING NOTHING ELSE TO READ, Leigh-Cheri eventually read the rest of the package. Camel: Turkish Domestic Blend Cigarettes: Choice: Quality: Manufactured by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N.C. 27102, U.S.A.; 20 Class A Cigarettes; and the famous inscription that has graced the rear panel of the package since its creation in 1913 (the year, allegedly, of the last Argonian transmission to redheaded earthlings); Don’t look for premiums or coupons, as the cost of the tobaccos blended in Camel Cigarettes prohibits the use of them.
She tried to count the e’s in that sentence, running into the same difficulty that has plagued many another package reader: almost nobody counts them accurately the first time. Staring at the camel, she detected a woman and a lion hidden in its body. On tiptoes, she held the pack before the one clear windowpane and saw in its reflection that the word CHOICE reads the same in

its mirror image as it does on the pack, it is not turned around by the mirror. That might have tipped her off that the Camel package crosses dimensional boundaries, the line between matter and antimatter, but she failed to grasp its significance right away. It was just another parlor game. As when she searched for additional camels on the package. (There are two behind the pyramid.)
Leigh-Cheri wondered if Bernard read his Camel pack also. She decided that he must, and she felt all the closer to him, just as daily Bible readings maintained a bond between knights and ladies separated during the Crusades.
Upon rising in the morning and before retiring at night, the Princess read the Camel pack. Sometimes she read it during the day. The words were soothing to her. They were simple and straightforward. They did not set her mind to whizzing, as could the literature on certain other packages. Cheerios, for example.
On the right side-panel of the verbose and somewhat tautological box of Cheerios, it is written,
If you are not satisfied with the quality and/or performance of the Cheerios in this box, send name, address, and reason for dissatisfaction-along with entire boxtop and price paid-to: General Mills, Inc., Box 200-A, Minneapolis, Minn., 55460. Your purchase price will be returned.
It isn’t enough that there is a defensive tone to those words, a slant of doubt, an unappetizing broach of the subject of money, but they leave the reader puzzling over exactly what might be meant by the “performance” of the Cheerios.
Could the Cheerios be in bad voice? Might not they handle well on curves? Do they ejaculate too quickly? Has age affected their timing or are they merely in a mid-season slump? Afflicted with nervous exhaustion or broken hearts, are the Cheerios smiling bravely, insisting that the show must go on?
One thing you can say for the inscription, it makes you want to rush to the pantry, seize a box of Cheerios, rip back its tab (being careful not to tear it off lest there come a time to send in the boxtop, which must be entire), part the waxed paper inner bag with both hands, dispatch a significant minority of the Cheerio population head over heels into a bowl, douse them immediately with a quantity of milk (presumedly, they do not perform when dry), sprinkle some white sugar on top, and then, crouch, face close to the bowl, watching, evaluating, as the tiny, tan, lightweight oat doughnuts, irregular in size, tone, and texture, begin to soak up the milk and the sugar granules dissolved therein, growing soft and soggy, expanding somewhat as liquid is absorbed; and you may be thinking all the while about the toroid shape, the shape of the cyclone, the vortex, the whirlpool, the shape of a thing made of itself yet mysteriously

distinct from itself; thinking about rings, halos, men overboard, the unbroken cycle of life, the void as nucleus, or, best of all, bodily orifices; thinking about whatever the trove of toroidal trinkets might inspire as, center holes flooded with sugary milk, they relax and go blobby in the bowl; but appraising, even as your mind wanders, appraising, testing, criticizing, asking repeatedly: do Cheerios measure up to Wheaties with beer, would they mix well with batshit in times of strife, would Ed Sullivan have signed them, would Knute Rockne have recruited them, how well do these little motherfuckers perform?
At times such as these, you understand what the man meant when he said he’d walk a mile for a Camel.
59
LEIGH-CHERI BEGAN TO reckon time in terms of Gulietta. When Gulietta brought lunch, it was noon. When Gulietta brought dinner, it was six in the evening. When Gulietta emptied the chamber pot, it was either 8:00 a.m. or 8:00 p.m.-for whatever the difference was worth. When Gulietta fetched her to the third-floor bath (seldom used by Max or Tilli) for a scrubbing, the Princess knew that it was Saturday and another week had passed. After ninety baths, ninety soapings of the peachfish, her lover would be eligible for parole. Gulietta was her clock and her calendar. Time was a skinny old woman with dilated pupils.
As for space, it came to be less defined by the walls of the attic, more defined by the Camel pack. The Camel pack was a rectangular solid, two and three-quarters inches high, two and one-eighth inches wide and three-quarters of an inch deep. Imagine Leigh-Cheri’s eyes crawling over every crinkle in the cellophane. Imagine Leigh-Cheri gazing expectantly, her eyes like a couple of goldfish with insufficient water in their bowls.
As an environmentalist, she might have been more interested in the chamber pot. Not only did the pot have a benevolent, ecologically sound function, but its round shape-as biomorphic as a breast, melon, or moon-evoked the natural world. Yet it was the Camel pack, all right angles and parallel lines (the formal equivalent of the rational mind); it was the Camel pack, born on the drawing board far from the bulrushes; it was the Camel pack, of a shape designed to shield us from the capricious, which is to say, the inexplicable; it was the logically, synthetically geometric Camel pack that enlivened the air of her cell.
In the morning, about a quarter till Gulietta-empty-chamber-pot, Leigh-Cheri would wake to find the Camel pack beside her cot. It had the poise of an animal. Some mornings, it would be lying on the foam rubber beside her unpillowed head, like a jewel forced out of her ear by a dream. Once, or maybe twice, lying there of a morning, she placed the pack mischievously in the nest of her pubis.

What strange bird laid this egg?
She spent a lot of time tossing the Camel pack in the air and catching it. She
became skilled to the point where she could catch it behind her back, over her shoulder, in her teeth, or with her eyes closed. Prancing with it, she incorporated it into some old cheerleader routines. Mostly, though, she just sat holding it, staring into its exotic vistas, populating its landscape, colonizing it, learning to survive there.
When crossing the desert, she learned to swaddle herself in a burnoose, the way the natives did. Redheads burn easily. She learned which stones one could squeeze water from. She learned to appreciate the special reality of the mirage.
One day she believed that she heard the rat-a-tat of a woodpecker, but search as she might, she could find no bill holes in the trunks of the palms.
Whether on foot or camelback, Leigh-Cheri went about with eyes downcast. Leigh-Cheri was looking for matchsticks. She looked for the print of black boots in the sand.
60
BATHS WENT BY. Meals passed. Deposits were made in the chamber pot and subsequently withdrawn. The springtime turned slowly to summer. By the end of June, it was so stuffy in the attic it was difficult to breathe-but there was always a cool breeze at the oasis.
Leigh-Cheri would sit in the shade by the spring, playing toss-and-catch with her package of Camels. For hours on end, she would toss and catch, toss and catch, while from the spring waters big old green amphibians spied on her with that voyeuristic bulbousness that can trap beauty and fix a thing forever. She was reminded of A’ben Fizel, the look he had when he was courting her.
Periodically, nomads came to the spring. They, men as well as women, wore hand-hammered silver jewelry that jangled like cash registers in a shopkeeper’s dream of heaven. Their antique rifles were as long as fishing poles, and the clay jugs that they filled with water were made back when Jesus was just a gleam in the One Big Eye. Berbers came, and Bedouins, driving their dromedaries to drink. Sheiks came, sheiks without oil wells or sons at Oxford, but who nevertheless wore robes that would pump up the egos of every silkworm in the East, and who vanished in clouds of perfume so thick they made the Princess cough.
Invariably, she questioned those traders, raiders, belly dancers, ali babas, and caravan executives about any red-haired outlaws they might have passed on their route, while they in turn hit her up for cigarettes.
“But I can’t open the pack,” she’d try to explain. “If I did, all this would collapse. A successful external reality depends upon an internal vision that is left

intact.”
They glared at her the way any intelligent persons ought to glare when what
they need is a smoke, a bite, a cup of coffee, a piece of ass, or a good fast-paced story, and all they’re getting is philosophy.
61
IT WAS IN JULY-about the time that King Max lost forty dollars on the All- Star Game and Gulietta ran out of cocaine-that Leigh-Cheri realized that her body had made a private compact with the moon. With a minimum of effort, she had begun to rotate on the lunar wheel.
At night, when the light was off, the attic normally was as black as the franks at a firebug’s weenie roast. In that part of the world, however, the full moon always rose in the east, and on those nights when the moon was biggest and brightest, a shaft of its light would spear the one clear windowpane and pierce her sleeping body. By May, she was menstruating regularly at the new moon, just as the ancients did, and in July she observed that she had begun to ovulate when the moon was full, as will any healthy woman whose nights are not polluted by synthetic lighting. She could always tell when she was about to ovulate because her vaginal mucus would become wetter and more abundant than usual, and more smooth and slippery, too. Her glands were greasing the tracks, as it were, for the Sperm Express. Of course, testing for ovulation can be hazardous, since a primed vagina, in its enthusiasm, can mistake an exploratory finger for a serviceable phallus and try to draw it in. Her resistance was admirable, however, if not quite heroic, and the mucus tests proved that she had begun, inadvertently but successfully, to practice lunaception.
As an advocate of lunaception, Bernard would have been proud of her. Bernard would have been proud despite this irony: now that her periods were predictable and her ovulation pinpointed, now that she was capable of conceiving or not conceiving at her own discretion, now that she finally had solved the problem of birth control, it was all academic. The Sperm Express didn’t run through the attic on Puget Sperm Express didn’t run through the attic on Puget Sound.
Still, it was pleasing to her to prove Bernard’s theory, and she derived, moreover, a sense of power and well-being from the sensation of being in touch with her biological cycles and of them being in harmony with the rhythms of the cosmos. She wondered how the moon, two hundred and thirty-nine thousand miles above the roof, could affect her as profoundly as it did. Being four times larger than the moon, the earth appeared to dominate. Caught in the earth’s gravitational web, the moon moved around the earth and could never get away. Yet, as any half-awake materialist well knows, that which you holds you.

Neither could the earth escape the moon. The moon conducts our orchestra of waters, it is keeper at the hive of blood. In a magnetic field, every object exerts force on every other object. The moon is an object, after all. Like a golden ball. Like a pack of cigarettes.
The fabric of even those objects that seem densest is, in actual fact, a loose weaving of particles and waves. The differences and interactions between objects have their roots in the interference patterns produced along combined frequencies of vibration. What it amounted to was that Leigh-Cheri was exerting force on the Camel pack. And it on her. Surely, such force had to do with the physical nature of the pack-its size, weight, shape, chemical composition, and, above all, proximity-and not with the pictorial content that adorned it. Ah, but pictorial symbols have their own weight and gravity, as the history of religion vividly demonstrates, and while Leigh-Cheri found herself in a relationship with the Camel pack as an object, just as she was in relation to the moon as an object (just as you, reader, have a relationship with this book as an object, no matter if you can tolerate another line of its content), she deciphered from the symbology of the Camel pack design what appeared to be the long-lost message from the redheads of Argon.
That might have been the major discovery of the last quarter of the twentieth century. On the other hand, it might have been the kind of rat hair in the tuna tin that can eventually confront the person who pays too close attention, who simply looks too hard. Plato did claim that the unexamined life is not worth living. Oedipus Rex was not so sure.
62
IT WOULD BE WEEKS, weeks defined by starchy meals and Saturday baths, before Princess Leigh-Cheri would detect something Argonian about that object with which she was sharing the bloom of her youth. Meanwhile, summer went about its business. Blackberries multiplied. Chihuahuas panted. Fan blades ran around in circles. The attic heated up. So did the revolt in Max and Tilli’s homeland. Of more concern to the King and Queen, or so it seemed to everyone but Chuck (Chuck believed, among other things, that Leigh-Cheri was operating a clandestine radio transmitter from the attic), was a rebellion that was occurring right there in the shoebox palace on Puget Sound.
Gulietta was demanding a raise. More precisely, Gulietta was demanding that she be put on salary, since in the seventy-some years that she had served the Furstenberg-Barcalona household, she had been compensated only with room and board and had never been paid a dime. Occasionally, the old woman received small sums from abroad, but while those monies might afford her a new bikini here, a pair of running shoes there, a porno movie one Sunday, a ride on a

roller coaster the next, they were not nearly enough to keep her in cocaine.
The Peruvian flake that had filled the plastic frog-the drug had been given to Bernard by a fellow outlaw whose life he’d once saved-would have cost close to
ten thousand dollars on the retail market, and Gulietta had tooted through it in four months. Now, deprived, nerve-racked, in a funk, she was demanding wages of fifty dollars a week. Retroactive to somewhere near the beginning of the century.
“Foul!” screamed King Max. His long horse face quivered from forehead to chin. “Out of bounds,” he screamed. “Dealing from the bottom of the deck.” The noise that his heart valve produced sounded like two mechanical mice making love in a spoon drawer.
Queen Tilli’s bulk paled. “Oh-Oh, spaghetti-o,” she stammered. She elected not to develop the idea more comprehensively.
“Forget this silly notion at once,” Max advised.
“In a pig’s eye I’ll forget,” replied Gulietta. Actually, her reply has lost something in translation. “You owe me.”
“Owe owe spaghetti-owe,” said Tilli. The rattling of Max’s heart drowned out the rest of her speech.
“No pay, no work,” said Gulietta.
“You’re bluffing,” said Max.
“I’m on strike,” said Gulietta.
“Oh-Oh, spaghetti-o,” Tilli was about to declare in summary fashion. Then
she saw that the others had guessed her thoughts. 63
NEWS OF THE STRIKE was a while reaching the attic. Downstairs, the place was in turmoil, it was worse than the time Gulietta went to Maui: dirty dishes piled up, dustballs rolled about freely, laundry fermented in the hamper, and the quality of meals plunged to 1.8 on the gourmet scale. What’s more, Gulietta was picketing the house, marching back and forth outside, completely naked except for a pair of oven mittens. Thanks to the acres of blackberries, she could not be seen from the street, and her picket sign, composed in a language that made Serbo-Croatian seem as simple as Bozo-Cretin, was in no danger of being read by an ordinary passer-by, but her protest parade upon that miniscule portion of lawn that had not been usurped by brambles caused Max and Tilli extreme agitation. “After all these years,” grumbled Max, “America has finally corrupted her.” Tilli’s constant comment hardly bears repeating.
Up in the attic, however, there were only a few repercussions. Gulietta continued to serve her young mistress, with whom she had no quarrel. In fact, having considerable extra time on her hands, Gulietta, out of boredom as much

as anything, began paying unscheduled visits to the attic, thereby totally screwing up the Princess’s clock. Once, the striking servant brought the prisoner of love a stack of magazines, including an issue of Arizona Detective, two issues each of Car and Driver, Fruit and Tarantula, and Pork and Trichinosis, a recent copy of Gentlemen’s Anus, and a dog-eared issue of the People magazine that featured a full-page photograph of the Princess in balmier climes, lounging beneath the lippy leaves of a koa tree, her extraordinarily round breasts lending topographical grandeur to the flat cotton front of a Save-the-Whales T-shirt, her big blue eyes dreamy with visions of a modern Mu. A fifteen-round bout with literary temptation was fought before Leigh-Cheri, determined to read only the Camel pack, ordered the periodicals and their bearer back downstairs.
On another occasion, Gulietta fetched Prince Charming, terrarium and all, to the attic, insisting that it was unhealthy for a person to live completely without animate companionship. This time, Leigh-Cheri consented. For one thing, she suspected that where frogs were concerned, the old lady had arcane information that had best be heeded. For another, Leigh-Cheri rationalized that there must be something animate, a fly, a flea, a mouse, a roach, an ant, something breathing the air in Bernard’s cell, and therefore her admission of Prince Charming wouldn’t violate her vow to duplicate her lover’s experience. She only insisted that Gulietta attend to the toad’s daily needs, just as, in her role as surrogate jailer, she attended to Leigh-Cheri’s.
If Leigh-Cheri failed to notice that Gulietta’s recent appearances in the attic were au naturel, it probably was because she herself hadn’t worn a stitch since the weather got warm back in June. When the Princess finally did learn of the strike, she was amused. She was aware of her daddy’s opinion that every commoner in the USA, with the possible exception of center Jack Sikma of the Seattle Supersonics, was overpaid, and she felt that it was good, not bad, for the kingly heart to receive an occasional kick in its pants. Nevertheless, she had to recall with a twinge that Bernard hadn’t much use for labor unions. It wasn’t that Bernard objected to strikes-he approved of just about anything that stirred the stew-but that he believed that the time was long past when unions were effective in controlling the vices of big business, that unions, in fact, had become big business, had perhaps surpassed big business in relative stench of corrupt practices and violent hanky-pankies. It was the Hawaiian mongoose syndrome all over again. Who shall control those who control those who control?
As the goat feet of chaos danced on the linoleum of the kitchen below, Leigh-Cheri entertained various thoughts about labor and management. They soon faded, though. The striking crone and Prince Charming notwithstanding, her central focus was upon the Camel pack. And the Camel pack was leading her

into the mysterious realm of the pyramids. 64
ON AN ATTIC WINDOWSILL, which by then was about as dusty as a literal Sahara, Leigh-Cheri would set the cigarettes. Then she’d kneel so that the pack was at eye level, pyramids on the horizon. Majestic, timeless, enigmatically powerful, the pyramids pulled at her until in a semi-trance she’d strike out across the open sands, chanting the pyramid names: Tiahuanaco and Giza; Seneferu and Cheops; Teti, Pepi, and La Huaca de la Luna; Zoser, Khaba, and Ammenemes; Neferirkare and Uxmal and Chicken Itza; on Chephren, on Unas, on Donner and Blitzen; now Dancer, now Prancer, now Sesostris II.
From a distance, the pyramids gave the impression of being sleek and well- preserved, but up close they were as ravaged by time and despoilers as Gulietta. The capstones and a dozen or more courses had been removed from their apexes, and the entire facing of Tura limestone, with the exception of some sections near the base, had been stripped from the triangular facades. Tunnels had been bored into their sides by treasure hunters, while enterprising builders had hauled off random stones to shore up their bridges and domiciles. Up close, the pyramids were cakes that had been found out by freeloaders. It saddened Leigh-Cheri to think that there was not one pyramid on earth that had not been gnawed.
“I can’t look at a pyramid without feeling like Perry Mason,” said Leigh- Cheri, meaning that like most people, the mere sight of those immense structures set her to popping questions like a prosecuting attorney on diet pills and beer.
How were they constructed? Why were they constructed? Who constructed them? What is their strange appeal to the human psyche?
The pyramids of Egypt were said by the experts to be tombs. The pyramids of Peru, Mexico, and Central America were said to have been temples. As for the pyramids of China, Cambodia, and Collinsville, Illinois, archaeologists were reluctant to guess. And as for the four pyramidal structures photographed by Mariner 9 on its fly-by of Mars, most scientists would just as soon forget them. Pyramidologists thought that in addition to their functions as temples and/or tombs, the pyramids also served as solar and lunar observatories. With the increasing evidence of “pyramid power,” that force that apparently accumulates inside the pyramidal cavity, a force that under the right conditions has the proven ability to regenerate both organic and inorganic matter, there was a modern trend to regard the pyramids as collectors or amplifiers of energy.
“It seems to me,” said Leigh-Cheri, “that whether a pyramid was built over a period of decades by hundreds of thousands of laborers using primitive engineering equipment like wooden levers and ramps and sledges and stuff like that, or in a few months by spacemen with laser beams, in neither instance would

they have gone to such trouble to make a six-million-ton device that did nothing but sharpen razor blades and preserve fruit.”
Further, it seemed to the pyramid-gazing Princess that since the skills and sciences used by the pyramid builders were virtually identical, as were their finished products, that the motive for their construction must have been the same. Moreover, since the construction required highly advanced mathematical and astronomical calculations, some of which were clearly beyond the capabilities of those ancient civilizations, and since the civilizations were separated by thousands of miles and hundreds of years, and since no records were left that referred to the methods or purpose of construction, that unknown outsiders must have been behind them.
Could those outsiders have been the legendary Red Beards? And could the Red Beards have hailed from Argon? Was there even such a planet, or was Argon a room behind an occult bookstore in Los Angeles?
Suppose there had been a number of Argonian colonies around the ancient world, and that in each colony pyramids were erected. What would have motivated Argon to endow earthlings with pyramids and with the scientific knowledge and near-impossible mastery of masonry that their construction required? Had there been a master plan? Was it still operative?
What, if anything, did red hair have to do with it?
And why is it nobody knows what the hell a pyramid is doing on the American dollar bill?
For that matter, what are pyramids doing on a pack of modern-day cigarettes manufactured from a blend of American and Turkish tobaccos?
Whenever she reached that point in her questioning, Leigh-Cheri gave up. “Bernard would probably have several ideas,” she said once. “I guess I’m just a dunce.”
Whereupon it occurred to her that a dunce cap is shaped like a . . . ! That sent her back to the pyramids again.
65
SHE HAD PYRAMIDS on the brain like a tumor. After one too many mornings of waking up with her mind on stone monuments instead of outlaw flesh, she dispatched Gulietta to the Richmond Beach branch of the King County Public Library to pick up books on the history of package design. It wasn’t strictly kosher, a book in the attic, but in the last quarter of the twentieth century what was? The Woodpecker himself had taught her that laws were like buttons- meant to be undone when the moment was ripe-and if you can’t break your own rules, whose can you break?
Although Gulietta donned a dress to go to the library, she continued to carry

her picket sign, not that anyone could read it. Chuck, who’d been drafted to do some minimal housework during the strike, dropped his mop and followed her. She must have known he was behind her because every block or two she’d look over her shoulder and yell “Scab!” in her inelegant tongue. Why Gulietta was bringing the sequestered Princess books on package design was beyond Chuck’s comprehension, but he was to dutifully report the matter to the CIA.
While Chuck was tailing Gulietta through the library stacks, a nondescript panel truck sped up the bramble-bordered lane to the palace, intrigue hanging out of both windows. Two foreign-looking men emerged. They wore hats and long, dark raincoats, though it was a sunny day in mid-September. The men let themselves in without knocking. Stepping over mop, pail, broom, and piles of newspapers, kicking aside dustballs, Chihuahua droppings, and the occasional poker chip, they made their way straight to Tilli and Max.
66
LATER THAT DAY, when there came a rapping at the attic door, Leigh- Cheri opened it without hesitation. She was expecting Gulietta. Instead, there stood her father, his noisy heart rapping upon a door of a different essence.
The King was exceedingly flustered. Initially, Leigh-Cheri attributed his embarrassment to the fact that he had violated her sanctuary, after not setting eyes on her in five months. Then she realized that she was nude. Due to the heat in the airless attic, her nipples were studded with opals of perspiration, and her pubic hair was damp and swept back from her labia, which glistened as if they’d been recently entertained. Unless shaven, the peachclam scarcely could have been more exposed.
“Excuse me,” she said. She pulled on T-shirt and panties.
“Oh, I’m getting used to it. First Gulietta, now you. I trust the Queen isn’t next.”
“Oh-Oh, spaghetti-o!” exclaimed the Princess. They both laughed. “You know that visitors aren’t allowed.”
“Sorry, dear. Gulietta was about to deliver you this volume. I thought I
would bring it instead.” He handed his daughter a book. “Wrapping It: The Art of the Package. I must say, a curious subject.”
“I can think of curiouser ones. For example, a royal family in exile in America. Shall I elaborate?”
Max went to shake his head, but his head was so occupied all it did was sway. His Chaplinesque mustache swayed with it. “I shan’t beat around the bush, Leigh-Cheri. I have been wondering if your mental health could be described as sound.”
“By whom?”

“Interested parties.”
“Depends on their criteria.”
“Responsibility and-”
“Responsibility to what?”
“-leadership and-”
“Since when has leadership been a criterion for sanity? Or vice versa. Hitler
was a gifted leader, even Nixon. Exhibit leadership qualities as an adolescent, they pack you off to law school for an anus transplant. If it takes, you go into government. That’s what Bernard says. He says the reason so many assholes go into politics is that it’s a homing instinct. At any rate, I understand that several romantics have started to follow in my footsteps. That makes me some kind of leader.”
“At last count, seventeen young women and one young man have locked themselves in their rooms in emulation of your lovesick self-indulgence. Monkeys and apes will attempt to copy any moron’s routine. I wouldn’t be too proud. But that is not my concern. I am trying to ascertain if you are playing with a full deck.”
“It may or may not be full, but at least it’s my deck.”
The King looked around the attic. The room was dusy, dim, and bare. It was stuffy and smelled like a Skid Row gymnasium. A wino wrestling team might recently have practiced there. The King thought of his beautiful daughter living nude in that filthy chamber. He wondered if she didn’t get splinters. “Leigh- Cheri,” he said. It was almost a moan. “Leigh-Cheri. You are wasting your life.”
“My life has never been more full, daddy. And it’s seldom been happier. You may tell your ‘parties’ that a life lived for love is the only sane life. Besides, I have other interests in here.”
Again, Max surveyed the room. A chamber pot, a frog box, a cot without bedding, what appeared to be a pack of cigarettes sitting on the sill of a blackened window. Other interests? He shuddered. He kissed her damp cheek. He left without telling her that he had been visited by agents of the revolution, that they wanted her to be queen when they won back their nation.
67
AS HE WAS LEAVING, King Max called back to her. “When do you plan to come down from here?"
“When Bernard’s released.”
“And what will you do then?”
“Be with him.”
“Doing what? A husband and wife demolition team?”
There was a long pause. “I don’t know what his plans are, daddy. Bye-bye.”

No, Leigh-Cheri hadn’t a clue what Bernard would do when he got out of prison. He had failed to advise her of his plans, if any, or if they included her. After her father had gone, she took a moment to try to imagine what the Woodpecker might do in life, but of only a few things could she be sure. There was no burger so soggy that he would not eat it. No tequila so mean that he would not drink it. No car so covered with birdshit and rust that he would not drive it around town (and if it were a convertible, he’d have the top down, even in rain, even in snow). There was no flag he would not desecrate, no true believer he would not mock, no song he wouldn’t sing off-key, no dental appointment he wouldn’t break, no child he wouldn’t do tricks for, no old person he wouldn’t help in from the cold, no moon he wouldn’t lie under, and, she hesitated to admit, no match he wouldn’t strike. But what would he do? Perhaps he’ll attempt to find out what happened to the golden ball, she thought, a little wistfully. God knows he’ll stir the stew.
68
CALL IT INTUITION, divine influence, or plain dumb luck-any way you sliced it it was still eureka. Eureka! Surely, Leigh-Cheri hadn’t expected to solve cosmic riddles by consulting a book on package design. She merely had a... hunch... that such a book might enlighten her about the reasons for there being pyramids on the Camel pack. As it turned out, there was scant information, but it was pertinent enough to make her cry “Eureka!"
Camels, it seems, hit the national market in 1914 (the year, according to interpretations of the Book of Revelations by Jehovah’s Witnesses and others, that Jesus Christ was finally coronated as king of Heaven; the same year, incidentally, that Tarzan of the Apes, another king and, like Jesus, a non-smoker, appeared on the scene). These particular cigarettes, an innovative blend of Virginia burley and Carolina bright, with imported Turkish leaf included for taste and aroma, and with a generous amount of sweetening added, were created personally by R. J. (Richard Joshua) Reynolds in Winston-Salem, N.C., the previous year. The package also was designed in 1913. It was Mr. Reynolds’s idea to name the new cigarettes “Kamel” or “Camel” to give them an exotic mystique befitting their Turkish ingredient, and it was Reynolds’s young secretary, Roy C. Haberkern, who talked Barnum Bailey into letting him photograph Old Joe, the cantankerous circus dromedary, for the title role on the pack. Who placed the pyramids in the background is unclear. The Camel label had been prepared for Reynolds by a Richmond lithography firm, and it was believed that an itinerant lithographer newly in the firm’s employ applied the finishing detail, including the pyramids, shortly before he walked off the job. Nobody remembered his name, but they recalled that he was a talented

draftsman and had flaming red hair.
It must have occurred to Reynolds or his staff that pyramids were unknown
in Turkey, yet objections were raised to the misplaced masonries neither at the home office nor anywhere else. If fact, the Camel label went on to become the most beloved in the history of packaging. When, in 1958, the manufacturer tried to alter the label-"Just a few minor changes in the familiar camel and the pyramid symbol to modernize the forty-five-year-old design"-smokers raised a stink more vile than last night’s ashtray. R. J. Reynolds, Jr., son of the deceased founder, was so angry that he sold a block of his company stock, and public reaction was negative to the extent that the directors quickly returned to the original design.
After Leigh-Cheri had read the story of the Camel label three or four times, she closed the book and placed it atop the chamber pot where Gulietta would be sure to see it and carry it back to the library. Leigh-Cheri was done with the book. Leigh-Cheri had no desire to clutter the pure pyramid of her thoughts with the knowledge that the Baby Ruth candy bar was named for the daughter of President Grover Cleveland and not for the baseball player, or that Double Bubble gum was originally called Blibber Blubber. Her eureka device was jangling and flashing. She was about, as she tossed the Camel pack high in the stale attic air and caught it under her chin, to formulate a theory.
It was to be a bit on the queer side, as theories go, and a person might need to spend a few months alone in an empty attic contemplating a pack of cigarettes to appreciate it at all. Nevertheless, resonance of the theory was to reach rather far. And it would reshape the life of that princess who had given up the world for the moon, who yearned desperately to make love stay.
69
THE THEORY ARRIVED neither full-blown, like an orphan on the doorstep, nor sharply defined, like a spike through a shoe; nor did it develop as would a photographic print, crisp images gradually emerging from a shadowy soup. Rather, it unwound like a turban, like mummy bandage; started with the sudden loosening of a clasp, a scarab fastener, and then unraveled in awkward spirals from end to frazzled end. Several weeks went by in the unwinding. When at last it was stretched out, it looked like this:
Pyramids, although everywhere in bad repair, are not in the usual sense ruins. That is, they are not simply relics of civilizations that have gone out of business, of concern only to archaeologists, historians, and those who spend the present jacking off the past. Pyramids were built to endure, made to defy both time and humanity. Their stones, jigged into position without mortar, were fit together so snugly you could not slip a bill between them, nor for that matter, a

credit card. Oriented with extraordinary precision, so that each of their angles faces one of the cardinal points, we can conclude from the pyramids that for thousands of years the position of the terrestrial axis has not appreciably varied- pyramids are great global reference points, unequaled in technology or nature. But they are more than that. Whether they were utilized as tombs, temples, or astrolabes or all three may be less significant than the discovery that pyramids, apparently as a result of properties peculiar to their particular shape, can generate or amplify an energy frequency that is restorative to what scientists call bioplasm, what philosophers call the life force, what the Chinese have always called ch’i. Pyramid power even enhances inorganic life. Pyramids are giant objects, affecting other objects, animate and inanimate, in ways beyond those normally attributed to gravity and electromagnetism.
Whatever the intended function of pyramids, they are not obsolete. They remain somehow relevant. In the last quarter of the twentieth century, with the current civilization staggering blindfolded down a rail strewn with banana peels, the mysteries of pyramid power, once solved, might provide an answer to the ubiquitous question, “Where do we go from here?”
Obviously, somebody wanted us to keep pyramids in mind, because the pyramid symbol has been placed conspicuously upon items that we regularly handle or observe. On any given day there are more than two billion one-dollar bills in circulation. For most of the century, half of the cigarettes smoked in the United States were Camels, something like thirty billion a year. It isn’t likely that pyramids were chosen arbitrarily to adorn two of the most popular common objects of modern times. Somebody knew that dollars and cigarettes would be in wide circulation and saw to it that pyramids would travel with them, constantly reminding a culture separated from the original structures by distance and time that pyramids have something of value to give if we’d learn how to receive it.
Exactly who was responsible for that prominent and constant pyramidal display? Well, the committee that created the dollar bill in 1862 acted out of tradition and sentiment. It decided to include a pyramid symbol because there had been one on the last paper currency issued in America, some interest-bearing bank notes used to finance urgent undertakings such as the War of 1812. Those early bank notes had been designed by that jack-of-all-genius, the only enlightened man ever to hold high political office in the United States, Thomas Jefferson. The hand that put the pyramid on the Camel pack in 1913-almost exactly one century later-hung from the inky sleeve of a transient lithographer who departed soon afterward, perhaps to join the military forces being recruited for World War I.
Looking for connections, we find that both designs were executed in the state

of Virginia, less than a hundred miles from Washington, D.C., the most powerful and influential world capital of the era. Ostensibly, the only other similarity between Jefferson and the nameless lithographer was the fact that each had red hair. That might be relegated to the realm of meaningless coincidence were it not for one thing: a certain race of red-haired Caucasians was credited in the myths, legends, hieroglyphs, and oral histories of Chavin, Mochica, Tiahuanaco, Inca, Maya, Olmec, Zapotec, Toltec, Aztec, and other New World pyramid-building peoples with having ordered and supervised pyramid construction. If no redheads are mentioned in connection with Egyptian pyramids, it may be only because not a single legend or historical account concerning pyramids has survived in Egypt. Two hundred years after the last pyramid was reared in their country, Egyptians were as baffled by the big masonries as everyone else.
Okay. Let’s get this porcupine on the street. A race of carrot-topped demigods, known everywhere as Red Beards, appeared at various places in the ancient world, transforming the natives, spurring them to develop highly advanced civilizations in a very short time, leaving behind vast pyramids and other solar/lunar architecture when they suddenly and inexplicably disappeared. That much is fact. It is also historical fact that the Chavin, Mochica, Olmec, Zapotec, and Toltec peoples also vanished abruptly and without explanation. Apparently, the Red Beards had powerful enemies, capable of zapping whole civilizations into other dimensions. If the Red Beards were extraterrestrial, a lunar race dispatched to earth, for whatever reason, from the planet Argon, then their enemy would have been a solar society, the blonde Argonian ruling class. Call them Yellow Beards. When the Yellow Beards learned what the Red Beards were up to on earth, they immediately zapped the people with whom they were conspiring. Poof! Off went the Chavin, next the Mochica, then the Olmec and so forth, transplanted, each in turn, from the universe to the anti-universe, leaving no forwarding address. Friendship with Red Beards bore a certain liability. Finally, the Red Beards themselves were zapped. This occurred shortly before the arrival of the conquistadors in the New World. When the Spanish priests heard tales of Red Beards, they naturally labeled them devils. It’s no coincidence that Satan is usually depicted as being as red as boiled crabs.
Stuck in the anti-universe, still the Red Beards did not give up. They had faith in the potentiality of earthlings. Maybe they felt that alone in the universe we here on earth (perhaps because of our close proximity and special relationship to our moon) possess the humor, the playfulness, the romantic sentiment, the general warm and honorable looniness to counteract the rigid solar efficiency of the Yellow Beards. Surely the Red Beards would not accept that the pyramids have been built in vain. Therefore, they attempted to

reestablish contact with earth. Of necessity, communication would have to be telepathic. And it would have to rely primarily on simple visual symbolism. Since the so-called anti-universe is a mirror image of the so-called universe, words would be reversed as they crossed from one dimension to the other, and language, even when translations were faithful, would make no sense at all.
So the Red Beards beamed their telepathic vectors into earthly dimensions. Only a few humans responded, and they exclusively redheads-maybe a trace of racial memory, an ancient residue of Argonian DNA remained in their genes-and the response was far from desirable. Reception of the extra-dimensional transmissions confused them and frequently brought them grief. For example, Vincent van Gogh, the most famous redhead omitted from the Twelve-Most- Famous-Redheads list, took to painting vases, chairs, stars, etc. as if they embodied the life force, which they likely do; as if there were vibratory fields, auras, around them, which there probably are, but everybody thought poor Vincent on the weird end of the banana, and eventually he was driven to take his own life. After several centuries of similar failures, the Red Beards refined their technique. They began to concentrate on a specific redheaded individual with a specific end in mind. Thus, they were able to influence Thomas Jefferson, an ideal receptor because of his wide-ranging sensibility, to affix a pyramid to the first American paper money issued since colonial days. When, after a century, that play hadn’t turned any big tricks, they beamed to the brain of a redheaded lithographer a more ambitious transmission.
The Red Beards had established a telepathic broadcast path, a channel that cut directly and deliberately through Washington, D.C., the most important of world capitals. Development of Camel cigarettes was occurring, fortuitously, within the mainstream of that channel. In 1913, most smokers rolled their own. Manufactured brands were just barely catching on, and while Fatima in Boston and Philadelphia, and Picayune in New Orleans were gaining appeal, Camel was to be the first cigarette to shoot for national (later, international) distribution. Moreover, R. J. Reynolds’s recipe for Camels called for a substantial amount of sweetener. Sugar, like lust, accentuates the reddish pigment in the hair and/or freckles of lunar-oriented people, especially when they’re exposed to direct sunlight. Leigh-Cheri had learned that from bona fide Argonians.
All right. Now we’re cooking, now we’re dressing this alligator in gold lamé. There was something else about the new cigarette that made its package the ideal medium for a Red Beard communiqué. It already was wed to a potent symbology.
The camel has a big dumb ugly hump. But in the desert, where prettier, more streamlined beasts die quickly of thirst, the camel survives quite nicely. As

legend has it, the camel carries its own water, stores it in its stupid hump. If individuals, like camels, perfect their inner resources, if we have the power within us, then we can cross any wasteland in relative comfort and survive in arid surroundings without relying on the external. Often, moreover, it is our “hump"-that aspect of our being that society finds eccentric, ridiculous, or disagreeable-that holds our sweet waters, our secret well of happiness, the key to our equanimity in malevolent climes. The camel symbolized a lunar truth, totemized a Red Beard lesson concerning survival in the desert, the desert being solar territory, any landscape bullied by the sun.
Transmitting to the receptive antenna on the red roof of the nameless lithographer, the Red Beards saw to it that palm trees were included on the package, for the date palm, essential to those who must dwell in deserts, underscored the symbolism of the camel itself. Every desert has its oasis, there is nourishment and shade to be found in the most barren environs if one knows where to look. Aware that hard times were coming in the last quarter of the twentieth century, times of shortages, pollutions, political betrayals, sexual confusions, and spiritual famine, the Red Beards, via the cigarette package, were projecting a moon ray through our sooty curtains. A ray of encouragement and hope.
Satisfied with the placement of the camel and the palm trees, the Red Beards turned their attention to their main concern, the pyramid. They considered the pyramid vital to the continuing evolution of earthlings, and they desired to confront earthlings with pyramids as often as possible. So successful was their telepathic prodding of the lithographer that not one but two pyramids appeared on the Camel pack.
Since the fellow was still tuned in, and responding beautifully, thank you, the Red Beards also had him work into the design a naked woman, representative of the Moon Goddess, the Great Mother, the feminine principal of creation, growth, change and renewal. The Moon Goddess is the oldest recorded and most universally common deity, and it was only fitting that her abiding fertility make its presence felt in the desert on the pack. It was the Moon Mother, perhaps, who was behind the regenerative power of the pyramids. She symbolized that power, certainly. In order not to spoil the composition, she was rendered most subtly on the package, hidden in the yellow and brown coloration in the left forequarter of the dromedary. That was apropos, for this Queen of Love, this giver of fantasies and dreams, this Shepherdess of the Stars, this healer and nurturer of all life had always made herself manifest in subtle and mysterious ways. As a reminder that the Moon Queen is ever threatened by the Solar King (we witness this cosmic drama monthly as the waning moon is consumed by the light of the sun), a

yellow-maned lion, the ancient and prevalent solar symbol, was also hidden in the body of the camel, above and to the right of the woman.
That should have done it, that should have made the Camel pack a vessel of symbolic truth unprecedented in the last quarter of the twentieth century, a virtual lunar Bible, compact, accessible, and concise, as befitting a transistorized age. But the Red Beards, excited now, had a masterpiece by the tail and didn’t want to turn it loose. They decided to take a further, daring step. They would try sending a word from their dimension into ours.
How carefully was that word chosen!
The word that allows yes, the word that makes no possible.
The word that puts the free in freedom and takes the obligation out of love. The word that throws a window open after the final door is closed.
The word upon which all adventure, all exhilaration, all meaning, all honor
depends.
The word that fires evolution’s motor of mud.
The word that the cocoon whispers to the caterpillar.
The word that molecules recite before bonding.
The word that separates that which is dead from that which is living. The word no mirror can turn around.
In the beginning was the word and the word was
CHOICE
70
DOWNSTAIRS-outside-all around-the world went on wobbling and
warbling through space, like a jukebox in a canoe, oblivious to her theorizing. The talk out there was of oil and nukes, of prices and wages, of ball scores and celebrities, of careers and illness, of, in a thousand clumsy and evasive ways, how to make love stay. A millionaire had died in a secretary’s bed. Horticulturists announced the development of a square watermelon. Someone in Beverly Hills opened a disco for dogs.
On the shores of Puget Sound, October had come in like a lamb chop, breaded in golden crumbs and gently sautéed in a splash of blue oil. Indian summer, some characterized it, incorrectly, for technically, Indian summer must follow a frost, and there hadn’t been a sign of frost since that freak freeze back in April. Rather, it was an extension of summer, summer had uncoiled and stretched itself out, like the garter snakes that, having heard no call to hibernate, still sunned themselves in the blackberry patch; snakes, all belt and no pants, startled from their prolonged laze only by the occasional fall of a berry, grown fat as a dove’s egg and black as a curse in this longest of summers.
The confectionary odor of rotting blackberries wafted to the attic windows

on breezes off the Sound, a mixture of sugar smell and salt smell that could bring out the renifleur in the primmest nostril. But the attic was shut tight, and no berry scent got in, nor did the dinosaurian squawk of the mallards, taking their time this autumn flying south. One noise that normally did penetrate the attic, the muffled raves and roars of the sporting world that leaked up through two ceilings and two floors from Max’s television, was also absent. If it was strange that there was no rain that October, the lack of football cheers was stranger yet, so strange that Leigh-Cheri pried her gaze from the Camel package to ask Gulietta about it on successive weekends, but the old woman fed Prince Charming flies and could not or would not reply.
Truth was, King Max continued to spend his waking hours in front of the Magnavox. He merely neglected to turn it on.
In his homeland, the royalist revolutionaries were steamrolling. A month, six weeks at the most, the junta would crumble. For thirty years, he had dreamed, in secret and with scarcely a dab of hope, of the restoration of the monarchy. Now that skinny, furtive dream was about to come true. Only they didn’t want him to be their king. There were archaic grievances against him, grudges held over like this same quasi-summer, from his previous rule. In addition, the younger revolutionary leaders felt that he had compromised with the CIA. His queen’s ties to the Vatican were suspected and scorned. What his country had in mind was a socialist monarchy, somewhat on the order of Sweden or Denmark, a bit to the left of England and considerably to the left of Max. Max would be welcomed home. He would be awarded the summer palace and its grounds on the lake. An allowance substantially more luxurious than that paid him by the Americans would be granted. Tilli would preside over the opera, as she had in the past, and weekends his old cronies would gather for grouse shoots and cards. But he would not be head of state.
Someone different, someone fresh was needed, they explained. They intended to shuffle the deck. None of his worthless sons was considered. Too many scandals among them, too many land swindles, stock frauds, casino brawls, and public displays of greed. Leigh-Cheri was the Furstenberg- Barcalona they had settled on. Young and bright and beautiful, with a strong social conscience, Leigh-Cheri would be a perfect figurehead for the new regime. Yet, unsavory stories now circulated about her, too. In Europe, in the midst of the fighting, they’d heard that she’d lost her head over a common convict. That she’d locked herself in an empty attic and wouldn’t even come out to poop. They read in the gossip columns that she was “tragic.” They wondered if “daffy” might not be the word.
Max longed to reassure them. How could he honestly do so? He had climbed

to that attic. He had observed her, naked, dirty, and alone, yet shining with contentment, talking about “interests” when there were none to be seen.
So Max sat before a silent Magnavox, his long equine head nodding at a frozen screen.
Perhaps to the old king the screen was not empty. Perhaps he saw there, in colors more vivid than a picture tube could reproduce, the rich pageantry of his former life. Maybe he saw himself on horseback, a chestful of medals reflecting the noonday sun. Saw himself, silver saber skyward, reviewing his troops. Saw the steaming funnels of his small but seaworthy fleet. Saw the pheasant in aspic, the broad hams, the trouts in sauce, the crystal goblets awaiting wine. Dukes he saw and earls; barons and prime ministers, presidents, princes, and potentates; ambassadors, the tips of their mustaches twinkling with exotic waxes, the tips of their tongues slippery with familiar lies. Saw the white teeth of ladies, their cigarette holders of ivory and onyx, their beaded handbags concealing tiny bottles of custom-made French perfumes, and what mere king could imagine the exact kinds of laces and satins they wore beneath their gowns, next to lotioned loins? Grand parades clattered down grand boulevards (he saw this on the cold TV), private railway cars rolled through luminous acres of wheat, opera houses were strung with lights for Christmas, fine hounds pursued the fox. In Gothic state houses, the stylized din of legislation jostled the chandeliers. And late at night, in windowless rooms carpeted with the richest art of Persia’s looms, over mellowed brandy and Havana cigars, the real governments convened. Strong men with wide educations and polished wits met to gossip, grapple, and plot. They spoke of precious metals, of rail lines and currencies and cattle and corn; they positioned armies at this frontier or that one, raised or lowered tariffs, arranged powerful marriages, made decisions that would affect shopgirls in Budapest or camel jockeys in Kabul. Their voices were low and grave as they pondered intrigues against them, even lower yet musical with mirth as they concocted intrigues against others. To be sure, they acted to enlarge their fortunes as much as to protect the populations who depended upon them, yet, whether the subject was commerce or war, treaties, tributes, or personal perversions of their peers, they, to a man, were consumed by a great, enormous, burning love for the drama of it all, an unrelenting passion for the secret theater of the planet.
Those days were gone. Now, the world’s decisions were made by smaller men; by gray, faceless bureaucrats without vision or wit; committeemen who spoke committeespeak and thought committeethought, men who knew more of dogma than destiny, men who understood production but were ignorant of pleasure, men more comfortable with a file full of papers than a fistful of gems;

unsmiling men, unmannered men, undreaming men, men who believed they could guide humanity when they could not seduce a countess nor ride a horse. Why, that bandit in black his daughter had dragged home was better fit to rule than any one of them, Communist or Fascist or Christian Democrat, alike as tasteless peas in a poisoned pod.
It was just as well that they not restore his crown. This was not a time for kings. Nor queens. Let Princess Leigh-Cheri bed down with outlaws, let her moon in an attic if that brought her joy. The gong in his heart was a soft sound now. He wouldn’t respond to the queries of his countrymen. They could keep their honorary titles and their villa on the lake. Gulietta was his single remaining subject, and he’d see to it that she got the money she was due. Max, the once and never more king, would spend the golden October days right where he sat. Awaiting the rains. Awaiting the blackberries that sooner or later, like the anonymous barbarians of the last quarter of the twentieth century, would come slinking through the walls.
On Sunday, the Seattle Seahawks were to battle the Dallas Cowboys. If he could remember to turn the knob.
71
ON THE HUMAN HEAD there are ninety hairs to the square inch. That’s an average. In Leigh-Cheri’s case, there were ninety-three or ninety-four, each redder than the last, and hovering over them, like a UFO over Haleakala, like a pan of bacon over a cook fire, there was a crown. Were they aware of the dangling diadem they might have blazed even redder in their follicles, but not one hair sensed the diamond craft that was considering landing on them, so they collected dust from Saturday bath to Saturday bath and glowed with no special effort. Beneath them, inside the skull, there was activity enough. Indeed, they feared they eventually might be driven as wild as Einstein’s hairs from the reverberations of seemingly preposterous theories.
Seemingly preposterous? Hairs, you are kind. What was her theory, anyhow, but an elaborate, fanciful, and incredulous reworking of Bernard Mickey Wrangle’s beliefs? The philosophy of CHOICE was outlaw philosophy, insofar as outlaws have philosophy (they are more inclined to have hangovers, herpes, and lousy credit ratings). Determinists who view the universe as an agitation of billiard balls, caroming off one another according to predetermined laws, have always been threatened by “outlaws” who insist on playing the game with their own cues. Laws describe constraint. Their purpose is to control, not to create. The universe adheres to laws only when evolution is static, catching its breath, so to speak. When things start to change again, when nature returns to its easel, its piano, its typewriter (not a Remington SL3, you better believe), as it has

periodically forever, then laws give way to choice. Dullards are law-abiding because they choose not to choose. Outlaws, being less frightened by the bewildering variety of experience, being, in fact, slightly mad for encounters new and extreme, will seek to choose even when no choice readily presents itself. Leigh-Cheri, by this juncture, was familiar enough with outlaws to realize that they are living signposts pointing to Elsewhere, that they are apostles of otherness and agents of CHOICE. So what was her theory except the song of the Woodpecker, bounced a few times too many off bare attic walls? It was the Woodpecker, after all, who introduced her to the Red Beards, who suggested, if jokingly, that they might have ties to Argon.
Shut up in an attic taking lunatic lessons from a pack of cigarettes and the moon, she obviously got her lover’s smartass ideas all tangled up with some archaic Indian tales and her personal meeting with a couple of self-proclaimed extraterrestrials who smelled like the cedar chests where retired pompon girls stow the prom dresses they’re too old and fat to ever wear again. In her isolation and confusion, she’d decided she’d cracked a coded message from another dimension. But her hairs would have known, wouldn’t they, if she was actually picking up signals from beyond the mirror?
In any event, although she was too obsessed with the implications of her theory to attribute it to a spinoff from outlaw bullshit, she felt the need for Bernard more strongly than ever. It was occurring to her that if she had cracked the code of the Camel pack in her contemplative cell, Bernard must have accomplished at least as much. Maybe Bernard had seen things there that she’d overlooked. Even if he hadn’t, she was wildly anxious to share her information with him, to seek his opinions and advice. She felt as if she’d bootlegged a tape of the Golden Eternity Vibrating Ethereal Choir, that group that sings on the soundtracks of bad movies based on the Bible, and she couldn’t wait to play it back on Bernard’s machine to see if it still had the ring of truth, the ring of truth being the finest sound there is, although there are noises some women make in bed that are definitely in contention. The tracks of her tears led farther than the end of her nose, for a change, and she’d be damned if she could hold off another fourteen months to share her discovery with that man whose redheadedness surpassed her own.
So the Princess made a choice. She would go to him.
Nina Jablonski, the redheaded attorney, had a new baby. She was on leave from her firm. Leigh-Cheri would borrow her credentials. She would go down to McNeil Island and impersonate her. She’d wear wide spectacles, paint on extra freckles, put up her hair in a bun. Easy as toast. Although technically Jablonski was off the case, the guards wouldn’t know that. Bernard would be curious

enough about “Jablonski’s” sudden appearance, after six months, to agree to see her. And Leigh-Cheri would end up in his cell.
Why hadn’t she thought of it before? She could have been visiting him weekly in the guise of his attorney. Leigh-Cheri went limp imagining making love with Bernard every Thursday in his cubicle.
As excited as she was, it still wasn’t easy, after so long a time, to just up and leave the attic. She thought perhaps she’d better come out slowly, like a diver coming up from flatfish territory, on the lookout for the bends.
Several mornings later, as preparation for her reemergence into the outside world, she walked to the window, whose nails she’d pried loose the evening before, and opened it slowly. Not slowly enough, however, to avoid dumping Chuck off the forty-foot ladder from whose top rung he’d been peering in through the single clear pane, searching for her radio transmitter-and masturbating vigorously. Chuck plummeted into the blackberry brambles, where he sank from sight, his still stiff member learning rudely and repeatedly that “prick” has more than one definition.
Dumbfounded, Leigh-Cheri listened to Chuck’s moans for a minute or two before, leaning out of the window, she began to cry for help. Her cries attracted the attention of a faded man in a Sears suit and an amateur haircut who was just then shuffling up the palace lane, bringing terrible news from jail.
72
CHUCK WAS HOSPITALIZED for nearly a month, during which time the CIA assigned a full-time professional to spy on the Furstenberg-Barcalona family. The operative kept showing up in different disguises, first as a fire inspector, then as an encyclopedia salesman, next a county health nurse wanting to put an ear to Max’s valve, until Queen Tilli, petting her Chihuahua all the while, finally confronted the guy and said, “Vhy don’t you just take zee leetle camera and der notebook und go leesen in on zee upstairs extension like Chucky did? You gonna get a tension headache, alvays changing your looks like dis."
It was academic, of course. Short of direct armed intervention, there was nothing further the United States could do to preserve right-wing tyranny in Tilli and Max’s homeland. And Max, suspecting that right-wing tyranny would only be replaced with leftwing tyranny, as was usually the case, had washed his royal hands of the whole affair. As for Princess Leigh-Cheri, who, the CIA had learned, was an unwitting candidate for reigning monarch once the revolution was complete, Leigh-Cheri, far from getting herself prepared to rule a nation, Leigh-Cheri was in the condition a Camel pack is in once it’s been dropped in a barnyard and chawed up and puked out by a goat.
As news of her self-internment had circulated, via the pages of such

periodicals as National Enquirer, Parade, and Cosmopolitan, the Princess had begun to attract more and more imitators. Women whose men were in prison or military service or Alaska working on the pipeline began bolting themselves in their rooms as public proclamation of lonely devotion. Several men did the same. Eventually, misguided romantics started taking to stripped-down boudoirs, garrets, basements, woodsheds, doghouses, and fallout shelters when their lovers were not away at all but could have been in their arms nightly if they hadn’t elected to sequester themselves as proof of their subjugation to the authority of Love. A wife in Unionville, Indiana, a woman known to have spent thirty dollars a week on Hallmark greeting cards, repaired to an unlighted cellar creeping with black widow spiders to demonstrate the depth of her feeling for her husband and three hungry children. Some people who locked themselves away didn’t even have sweethearts. By autumn, almost a hundred “princess prisoners” were staring at wallpaper in improvised “love attics” across the land, and some sort of competition was underway, radio stations offering cash prizes for endurance records. Leigh-Cheri had an inkling of this activity, but her mind had been on pyramids and cosmic mystery, and she hadn’t given it much thought. Well, the news finally traveled as far as solitary at McNeil Island, where evidently it did not sit well at all.
In fact, Bernard, who’d been behaving relatively straight in hopes of securing an early release, was so perturbed by the reports that he availed himself of the illegal but commonplace prison-system underground post office and risked his record to sneak out a letter to Leigh-Cheri. The missive, in the handwriting of the bribed guard to whom it was dictated, was delivered by Perdy Birdfeeder, a middle-aged malefactor from Tacoma freshly freed after doing fifteen years for purse-snatching. Birdfeeder, who’d grabbed hundreds of purses over a period of many years before he got careless and snatched a colostomy bag-he might have gotten away even then had he not stopped to count the change-helped tug the bleeding Chuck out of the blackberries, severely snagging his new government-grant suit in the process, and then handed over the letter to Gulietta. Birdfeeder could thank his lucky stars that the royal custom of executing messengers who bore ill tidings was no longer observed.
“Yuk!” That was how the note began.
Yuk! If you think the Black Hole is bad, you should try it with baby ferrets hanging by their teeth from the skin of your testicles. That’s how I felt when I learned that our personal relationship has become public soap opera, a low- budget interview with Barbra Streisand, and a sport on the order of flagpole sitting and phone-booth stuffing. Babe, it appears that you and I are no longer sucking the same orange. Romance is not a bandwagon to be jumped on by lost

souls with nothing more interesting to ride. I thought you’d learned by now that “romantic movement” is a contradiction in terms and that, if prompted, society is all too eager to turn the deepest, most authentic human experiences into yet another shallow fad. You prompted. I guess you can take the girl out of the movement, but you can’t take the movement out of the girl. Even in solitary, you couldn’t curb your herding instincts. Leave it to a naive world-saver like you to view our love as a Sacred Cause when in actual fact all it was was some barking at the moon.
73
THE TEARS OF THE PRINCESS, if placed end to end, would have circled Seattle like a moat.
The tears of the Princess, if dammed, would have provided refuge for the hunted whale and moorage for the Ship of Fools.
Among the Berbers, it was held that since there is no memory in the grave, earth from a burial mound can help a person forget his or her sorrows, especially the heartbreak of unhappy love. But Bernard included no grave dirt with his letter, and if he had, the tears of the Princess would have turned it to mud.
After she had completely soaked the foam rubber mattress with her bitter weeping, she hurled the mattress out of the window into the blackberries below. (Too bad for Chuck it hadn’t been there when he fell.) Then she smashed the chamber pot against the wall. Later, pacing frantically, she slashed her feet on its shards.
Seizing the Camel pack, she squeezed it in her small fist, toppling the pyramids and busting the dromedary’s hump. Mummies ran from the pyramids in panic, dragging their wrappings behind them. Water spewed from the camel’s cracked hump like a fountain of tears.
For hours she would cry softly, almost imperceptively, rubbing her eyes raw with her knuckles. Then she’d leap to her feet and scream. Helpless, King Max and Queen Tilli (and the CIA agent, disguised now as a Roto-Rooter man) kept vigil at her door, while inside the attic Gulietta stood quietly, cupping Prince Charming in her hands, perhaps protecting him from redheaded rage, perhaps invoking the magic of the frog.
After three days of such carrying on, Leigh-Cheri grew calm. She was, after all, in close harmony with lunar rhythms, and that which wanes must wax. Three days of darkness is as much as the moon will tolerate before it yelps, “Enough already,” and begins slowly to reopen the antique refrigerator from whose icy innards will shine the transformative light of the world.
Outside, the rains had come, the rains that like a blizzard of guppies would pelt the creaky old house until spring. There is no weeping that can compete

with the Northwest rains.
So Princess Leigh-Cheri blew her nose. She sat her bare buttocks on the cot
wires, careful not to snag anything. She thought for a while. She uncrumpled the Camel pack. Then she smiled. She turned to Gulietta. Her voice was determined and gay.
“Bring me A’ben Fizel,” she said.
INTERLUDE
IF THIS TYPEWRITER can’t do it, then... what? Can the Muse punt? The Remington SL3 needs a verb job. It clearly can’t write between the
lines. It’s insensitive to the beauty of fungoid alkaloids-the more I ingest the more inarticulate it becomes. And despite my insistence upon traditional literary values, it remains petulantly moderne.
Believe me, I’d have few qualms about switching machines in the middle of the stream, but nothing’s open at this hour except Mom’s All Nite Diner and the contraption that taps out Mom’s menu spells “greese” with three e’s. Besides, I’ve been informed that the Remington warranty doesn’t cover “typing of this nature,” whatever that might mean. (I suppose I shouldn’t be surprised: when I went to buy a policy from Mutual of Omaha, they’d only insure my typing finger for fire and theft.)
I guess there’s nothing left to do but ram in the clutch on this bourgeois paper-banger and try to coast to the finish line. In the event that I don’t make it, in the event that you, dear reader, must finish without me, well, you’ve been a good audience, probably better than an underdeveloped novelist with an overdeveloped typewriter deserves, and I’d like to leave you with one perfect sentence, one memorable image to fold in violet silk at the back of your brain box. Something on the order of a drop of tropical jelly oozing from a love bite on a concubine’s lip. Alas, there’s not enough juice for us to indulge ourselves-a familiar complaint in the last quarter of the twentieth century-so at the risk of being coy, I’ll thank you quickly and arrivederci on out of here. As they say in my country, have a nice day.
Phase
IV
74
THE DAWN CAME UP like a Have-a-Nice-Day emblem. The sun shone
like Mr. Happy Face himself, and the horizons were all smiles. From boundary to boundary, the people arose as if they’d been given champagne enemas, convinced that they were going to have a nice day. A nation traditionally, historically, anciently monarchal was about to seat its first sovereign in thirty years. It was Coronation Day, hooray.

Everyone had the day off. The hotels and boarding-houses were full. Along the procession route, crowds began thickening before dawn. All seats in the stands had been reserved as soon as booking opened, and tickets were selling on the black market for the equivalent of ninety dollars each. Balconies overlooking the route cost even more. School children had been given mugs, plates, pamphlets, and badges, and they carried them as if they had supernatural properties, pressing them to their new spring outfits. From the radio aerials of automobiles, little flags fluttered chirpily. Soldiers, heroes of the revolution, wore brand-new boots of squeaky leather, and women, young and old, smiled at them from behind bouquets. By eight o’clock, there were in the streets more flowers than people. And as common as roses were the dark blooms of cameras.
At ten, the bees inside the camera heads began to whirr furiously, announcing the approach of the State Coach, gilded, curlicued, emblazoned with baroque pastoral scenes by Cipriani, attended by scarlet-and-gold coated postilions, and drawn by six white horses. Silver trumpets blared, cathedral bells went dizzy clanging. Frightened, the capital’s pigeons took to the sky, only to find the sky occupied by balloons, confetti, and the acrobatic secondhand jet planes of a fledgling air force.
In ceremonial tunic, the newly elected premier stepped from a less ornate carriage and climbed the lily-festooned stairs to the throne platform. The premier, military leader of the revolution, was cheered and cheered mightily, but it was obvious that the crowd was saving its thunder. All at once a wave of exultation akin to religious ecstasy swept through the throng. Tears catapulted like crystal jumping beans from fifty thousand sets of eyes, and in half a million breasts an enormous sigh took shape. “God save the queen!” shouted the premier, and it mattered little that the premier did not believe in God. “God save the queen!” roared the dignitaries, the soldiers, the weeping women, the workers, and the children. And there she was, ascending, her ermine train piling up behind her, a holy puppet clothed in magic robes for the comfort of the masses and the pride of the state, ascending in an aura of accumulated history, the visible and human aspect of government, the emerald cap on the toothpaste tube of nationality, the beauty mark on the contorted face of race. “God save Queen Gulietta! Long live Gulietta! Long live the queen!”
75
MAX’S FATHER, King Ehrwig IV, had impregnated a kitchen maid. Captivated by the skinny child who grew from his careless seed, he went often, before Max was born, to the scullery where, among cabbage leaves and leeks, he bounced her on his elegant knee. Ehrwig offered to adopt her, but the child’s mother, as spunky and obstinate as Gulietta herself was to be, wouldn’t have it.

“You’re content to leave me in the kitchen,” she charged. “The baby stays here, too."
After Max’s birth, when King Ehrwig had at last a proper heir, he sought out Gulietta, then eleven, and into her jam-sticky, bony little hand pressed a document admitting paternity. “There may come a time when you will need this,” he said. A copy of the document was placed among his secret papers where many decades later it was found by a member of the revolution’s monarch selection committee investigating the Furstenberg-Barcalona lineage.
All along, Gulietta had known that she was Max’s half sister, but she chose to honor her mother, in life and in death, by never revealing that fact. However, when she was approached by agents of the revolution-they found her splitting cedar kindling beside a fireplace on Puget Sound-she chose to honor her father by freely confessing to the purple in her veins.
“We’ve lost faith in Max and Tilli,” they told her, “and besides, Max has renounced the crown. Their sons are beneath consideration, they are trash. We would have liked Princess Leigh-Cheri, but you’re aware of what she’s gone and done. You are left. And you will be perfect. You are representative of both our proud royal heritage and our good common folk. Upon your head, the crown will not be just a piece of autocratic hardware, it will be an adjunct of democratic, socialistic rule. You will be a queen for the people because, though genetically royal, you come from among the people. Why, you even speak the mother tongue, the old language. On top of that, when it comes to Furstenberg- Barcalonas, you’ve got more sense than any of them.”
At first her age had worried them, but when they observed the vim with which she swung her hatchet, they nodded at one another and smiled. “She’ll outlast the twentieth century,” they predicted.
So, shortly after Christmas, old Gulietta acceded to the throne, and in the spring, she publicly accepted the elaborate tokens of regal responsibility-the scepter, the ring, and last, the crown itself. It was such a glittering, emotion- charged occasion, pompous in the best sense of the word, that not a soul, not even the premier, noticed that the old woman never at any time during the coronation unclinched her left fist. And in the unlikely event that they had noticed, nobody would have suspected that inside the fist was a living frog. When the creature croaked, they attributed the sound to the excitement of ancient bowels and went right along with the ceremony.
Upon being crowned, Gulietta’s first act was to reaffirm diplomatic ties with Peru and Bolivia, to whose envoys she hinted strongly that some nice fresh cocaine, for medicinal purposes only, would be regarded a proper tribute.
Her second act was to personally request of the president of the United States

of America the commuting of the sentence of a certain “political prisoner” held in federal jail in Washington State. As a matter of protocol, the president had little choice but to comply.
76
"HELLO, DARLING. Any word about the limestone?” Leigh-Cheri embraced A’ben Fizel. She kissed his mouth and welcomed the hands that slid immediately inside her negligee.
“How can one speak of stone when there is flesh at hand?” A’ben asked. He drew her more tightly against him.
“Take it easy, darling. Don’t be in such a hurry. Meat won’t melt. I want to hear about the limestone.”
“Okay, there is the good news, finally. The ship she passes through Suez at this hour. Should to be arrival here before two day.”
“Ohh!” Leigh-Cheri squealed with happiness. “I’m so glad. Aren’t you glad? Maybe we’ll even finish on schedule. Do you think so?”
“You tell me take it easy. Now I tell you take it easy. Stone she not melt. Pyramid never melt. Pyramid will be here on earth long after this is in heaven.” His fingers, dripping with jewels, closed around her groin.
“Mmmm. This is in heaven already. Or it soon will be.” With a movement like a raccoon picking a fruit, like an outlaw striking a match, she unzipped his trousers.
77
WHAT HAD DISTURBED LEIGH-CHERI most about Bernard’s note was its evidence of how poorly he knew her. Like women in general, like Aries women in particular, like redheaded Aries women in greater particular, she loathed to be misunderstood. Injustice against others outraged her, injustice against herself set her to boiling like brimstone soup. After the sacrifices she had made, after the extremity of her commitment, to then be scolded like an errant tot, to be lectured condescendingly, to have her love, their love regarded frivolously was simply intolerable. The one man who might know how to make love stay-or so she’d thought-had behaved as if the moon were his personal wheel of cheese, and once again her heart’s natural inclination to contemplate romantic grandeur had been interrupted by the mundane, betrayed by the egotistical. Never again, by Jesus! Inside her, something had snapped. She couldn’t say that she no longer cared about Bernard, but she could say loudly and clearly that no longer would she be victimized by caring. She was a princess, a very special entity with very special graces, and from now on, when it came to men, she would call the shots.
It occurred to her that in every relationship in which she had participated, in

every union older than a year that she’d observed, imbalance existed. Of a couple, one person invariably loved stronger than the other. It seemed a law of nature, a cruel law that led to tension and destruction. She was dismayed that a law so unfair, so miserable prevailed, but since it did, since imbalance seemed inevitable, it must be easier, healthier to be the lover who loved the least. She vowed that henceforth imbalance would work in her favor.
She vowed also, caressing the warped Camel pack as she vowed, to enlarge and explore what she’d come to call her “theory.” She viewed herself as some kind of Argonian link, and the vision that she’d had in that stuffy, silent attic was to be the foundation of her new life’s work.
To these ends, she sent for A’ben Fizel.
When he was courting her, upon her return from Hawaii, Fizel had been a gallant but unattractive companion. Excesses of liquor and rich foods had given him bulbous jowls and a greenish complexion. He rather resembled a tall toad. But when she sent for him, suggesting that she might consent to become his wife, an amazing transformation took place. Putting aside his playboy ways, Fizel checked into a North Dakota health ranch where he was assigned a diet of grapefruit and raw garlic cloves and made to walk twenty miles a day. At the end of thirty days, he knocked on the door at Fort Blackberry a slim and handsome figure, reeking only moderately of garlic. Leigh-Cheri was amazed. Nothing the approval in her eyes, Fizel got right to business. He presented her with a diamond as big as a Ritz cracker. The Princess was not to be rushed, however.
“What do you think about the future of pyramids?” she inquired.
78
IT HAS BEEN ESTIMATED that it would require six years and a billion
dollars to construct the Great Pyramid of Giza with modern technology. To duplicate the Great Chicken of Itza would take even more time and money-but that was Col. Sanders’s problem. Leigh-Cheri’s scheme was not quite so ambitious. A pyramid one-third the size of Giza would still be an enormous structure and would suit her purposes just fine.
“Your country practically borders Egypt and has much the same terrain,” the Princess reminded A’ben Fizel, “but tourists never visit you because there’s no attraction. In fact, when your country is mentioned, most people draw a blank. If anything comes to mind, it’s oil wells, excessive profits, religious fanaticism, and vulgar taste. Suppose you were to erect the first full-sized genuine pyramid in the Levant in more than three thousand years. Not only would it attract tourists from all over the world, it would serve as a popular symbol and give your nation an identity. The pyramid could become a showplace for your culture. In addition to bringing in revenue, it would be great public relations. Folks

wouldn’t be so quick to think of you guys as nouveau riche barbarians with petroleum under your nails and sand between your ears.”
Fizel flinched at these words, but he was fascinated nonetheless. Her proposal made some sense to him as a businessman and a patriot. The icing on the pyramid-shaped cake was that she promised to marry him when the structure was complete. His pyramid would be a celebrated monument to his love for her just as the Taj Mahal was a monument to the love of Shah Jahan for his favorite wife. Fizel was one of the few men on earth who could affort to express affection in such grandiose terms.
Following a fortnight of deliberation-and consultation with his dad-A’ben agreed. Before slipping the diamond on the Princess’s finger, however, he made a stipulation of his own. It was practically common knowledge that his bride-to- be was no virgin. Fizel demanded, therefore, that while the pyramid was being built, she reside in his country, near the Fizel palace, and that one night a week she admit him to her chambers.
Since she had every intention of supervising the construction of the pyramid and since it behooved her to put distance between her and McNeil Island, Leigh- Cheri was quite willing to move to A’ben’s land. As for his demand to trespass weekly in her boudoir, she put it to a vote. Her heart said no, the peachfish said it was about damn time. Ambivalent on the subject, her brain finally decided to vote with the peachfish. Thus was the betrothal announced.
79
THERE WERE MOMENTS before her mirror, brushing the hair that flowed like creeks of lava, that trailed like the woven trails of red-hot comets, when she would see a whore’s face looking back at her. At those moments, she felt hard and dirty, and she’d spatter the mirror-face with tears, mourning girlish innocence, romantic dreams, the dimming of the moon. But in the square beneath her Moorish windows, real camels chewed their cuds, when she parted the brocade draperies, she could see domes, minarets, and date palms strikingly similar to those on the cigarette package, and on the far horizon, a pyramid-her pyramid-was swiftly rising.
It would continue to rise until reaching a height of 160.6 feet. It would spread until it covered 4.4 acres. Its four triangular faces were designed to incline at an angle of 51 degrees, 52 minutes to the ground, precisely the same as Giza’s. Naturally, the pyramid would be accurately aligned to the cardinal points, while consultants from Cambridge’s astronomy department were assuring that it would have solar, lunar, and stellar alignments, as well. Its outer chambers would be given over to cafes, bazaars, and nightclubs, all of highest quality, to a trade exhibit and to a small but important museum of Levantine

archaeology. The inner chambers were Leigh-Cheri’s alone. In them, she would oversee and conduct exhaustive experiments in pyramidology. Pyramid power, that energy frequency that preserves corpses, sharpens razor blades, amplifies thought forms, and increases sexual vitality, would be studied by the best scientific minds until it was thoroughly understood, and then every effort would be made to put it to the uses that the Argonian masters intended. Perhaps through the impetus of her pyramid, the Red Beards somehow could be retrieved from exile, or a new race of modern Red Beards would be spawned and eventually regain control over solar forces.
When she thought of things pyramidal, which was most of the time, it no longer distressed her that she was using A’ben Fizel or allowing him to use her. Then, she would look in the mirror shamelessly. She’d brush her hair as if it were the aurora of a permanent moonrise. And sometimes she’d lift the Camel pack, crinkled and bent, from her dressing table and hold it up to the looking glass, smiling at how the great word CHOICE once more defied the inversions of normal reflection. She had freely chosen the life she now led, and if it had unsavory aspects, well, she must be brave and bear the taint. Not that the liaisons with her fiancé were ordeals for her. Au contraire. Oh, very au contraire.
80
THE FIRST TIME that she spread her legs for him it had been like opening her jaws for the dentist. Clouds of dread, doubt, resentment, guilt, and sentimentality combined to shadow the faintest ray of pleasure. Eyes squeezed shut, she tried to imagine that it was Bernard inside her, but this new man felt so different, so strange that the fantasy never solidified. In the weeks that followed, she relaxed somewhat, primarily as a result of his unexpected gentleness. Eyes still tightly closed, she’d move against him as if he were a device from a sex shop, mechanically churning herself to the creamy brink of aloof orgasm. When she finally went over the brink, one twilight when incense burners were smoking up the flat and camel bells tinkled in the square below, she relaxed far more. The next time he undressed at her bedside she kept her eyes wide open-and saw what she’d been missing.
Although A’ben had resumed an active nightlife-giving the discos one last whirl before marriage, he claimed-daily workouts in the family gymnasium were keeping him trim. His Semitic beak had a strong masculine contour, the teeth that armed his shy smile were brilliant and regular (especially in comparison to Bernard’s yellow wrecks), and there was a generous light in his chocolate eyes. His phallus was long, slender, and slippery, and as curved as a Phoenician eyebrow. Aroused, it stood politely on end, but bowed backward so that its head, as smooth and purple as eggplant, almost touched his belly. Even before A’ben

could climb into bed, she was stroking that exotic fixture, marveling at its natural lubricity, rubbing it against her nipples, holding it against her flushed cheeks. The poor man barely got his feet off the floor before she had him in her mouth. As he throbbed in her throat, pumping jet after jet of that steamy translucent mucilage with which Cupid tries to glue the world together, she felt as if she were gulping concentrated ecstasy, and it made her blood croon. Later that evening he focused on her clitoris with unusual sensitivity, and as he was leaving to return to the palace, she hinted that one meeting a week might be shortchanging Aphrodite. “After all, you’re a sheik, and I’m a redhead,” she whispered. From then on, he visited her on both Wednesdays and Saturdays, and they fucked the night away.
More than once, Leigh-Cheri tried to convince herself that she’d fallen for him, but she knew that she was only in love from the waist down. No matter how ardently the peachclam might gush over him, her heart was unmoved. On those occasions when the peachfish was most ebullient, her heart would grow moody, turn up the collar on its trench coat, pull down the brim of its hat, dangle a cigarette from its sullen lips, and go walk for hours on the poorly lighted streets of the waterfront. If a heart won’t listen to a vagina, what will it listen to? The question went unanswered-but Wednesday and Saturday evenings passed in physical rapture, and until there arose a difficulty procuring Tura limestone for its facing, the pyramid proceeded ahead of schedule.
81
MORALITY DEPENDS ON CULTURE. Culture depends on climate. Climate depends on geography. Seattle where the clams were singing, Seattle where the trolls were hiding, Seattle where the blackberries were glistening, Seattle where the bloomers of the sky were drooping, Seattle the city that washed its hands with the incessancy of a proctologist, Seattle was far behind her, at memory’s rest on a dank, deep mossy bed. Now the Princess lived at the edge of a vast desert, under the seal of the sun. The change in interior geography was just the opposite. Indoors, she had traded the barren attic for a lavish flat. Her outside world and her inside world had swapped places. Had there been a corresponding psychological shift? And had its effects edited her moral code?
Perhaps. Slightly. But something had happened in the intimate immensity of the attic that, if not negating that alteration, had rendered it trivial. She had become sensitized to objecthood.
Thanks to the Camel pack, Leigh-Cheri could no longer snub an object. Thanks to the Camel pack, she had been cured of animate chauvinism. Among her acquaintances at the university, among the enlightened delegates to the Care Fest, those who railed most liberally against racism, sexism, and ageism

discriminated hourly against the inanimate objects around them, denying them love, respect, and even attention. But though she’d reached no conscious conclusions on the matter, Leigh-Cheri had come to consider the smallest, deadest thing as if it had some life of its own.
During the day, out at the pyramid site, she’d find herself regarding the tools of the workmen with at least as much admiration as she regarded the workers themselves. Her grip lingered on doorknobs much longer than necessary. She patted the big granite blocks with the casual affection others might spend on a passing pooch, treating the stones as though they had individual personalities, while the wooden canteen from which she quenched her thirst became a special friend; she treasured its mouth against her mouth, was prepared to defend it against adversaries. In the evening, after she’d soaked off the desert dust and applied a fresh coat of zinc oxide to the blaze of her nose (redheads burn easily), she’d stroll through the flat (provided it wasn’t Wednesday or Saturday, of course), randomly picking up ashtrays, music boxes, coffee cups, letter openers, artifacts, or candies, boring into them until each expanded into a limitless world, every bit as rich and interesting as that other more physically mobile world about which she remained curious but from which she was once again isolated.
In a society that is essentially designed to organize, direct, and gratify mass impulses, what is there to minister to the silent zones of man as an individual? Religion? Art? Nature? No, the church has turned religion into standardized public spectacle, and the museum has done the same for art. The Grand Canyon and Niagara Falls have been looked at so much that they’ve become effete, sucked empty by too many stupid eyes. What is there to minister to the silent zones of man as an individual? How about a cold chicken bone on a paper plate at midnight, how about a lurid lipstick lengthening or shortening at your command, how about a styrofoam nest abandoned by a “bird” you’ve never known, how about a pair of windshield wipers pursuing one another futilely while you drive home alone through a downpour, how about something beneath a seat touched by your shoe at the movies, how about worn pencils, cute forks, fat little radios, boxes of bow ties, and bubbles on the side of a bathtub? Yes, these are the things, these kite strings and olive oil cans and Valentine hearts stuffed with nougat, that form the bond between the autistic vision and the experiential world; it is to show these things in their true mysterious light that is the purpose of the moon.
One Wednesday evening, lying beside A’ben Fizel, at rest after a four- quarter, double-overtime copulation, Leigh-Cheri startled both herself and her intended by sitting up suddenly in bed, grasping the Vaseline jar that she’d been watching in the moonlight, and asking aloud, “Whatever happened to the golden

ball?” 82
IN TIME, Leigh-Cheri became intimate with most of the inanimate objects in her environment, including that inanimate object that controls the reproductive cycles of all living creatures, that inanimate object that choreographs the tides, that inanimate object that influences sanity, that inanimate object to which J. Isaacs was referring when he wrote, “... the history of poetry in all ages is the attempt to find new images for the moon.” (The moon is the Empress of Objects, and as a practitioner of lunaception, Leigh-Cheri was in its league). There was one object in her domain, however, which she pointedly ignored, even though that object was particularly enlivened by moon-shine. It was her engagement ring.
More than likely, she was afraid of what the ring signified. She had fully accepted A’ben Fizel as a lover, yet to contemplate their marriage made her shiver and sweat. Whenever she tried to imagine herself his lifelong bride, she grew immediately morose and set to thinking about the pyramid instead, even though the day of the pyramid’s completion and her wedding day were the same.
In Fizel’s country, it was taboo for an engaged couple to appear together in public, so except for slippery Wednesday evenings and slishy Saturday nights, she rarely saw him. A’ben procured materials for pyramid construction and organized the labor force. At this he was so efficient that the project, which should have taken a minimum of two years, looked as if it would be done in twenty months, the delay in delivery of limestone facing notwithstanding. But A’ben seldom appeared at the building site. An inveterate night-clubber, he frequently flew to Rome or Mikonos for a single evening’s revelry, only to sleep away the mornings and devote afternoons to strenuous gymnastic sessions and meals of grapefruit and raw garlic. He had leased a satellite to relay telecasts of every game played by the American professional basketball team whose franchise he owned, and presumedly sports biz consumed a fairly large portion of his attention.
The week that Leigh-Cheri arrived in his country she was honored with a reception at the family palace, where she met the patriarch, Ihaj Fizel, one of the most financially powerful men alive. She also was introduced to A’ben’s two brothers. The mother made a brief appearance, the sisters weren’t seen at all. When Leigh-Cheri asked about the women, A’ben shrugged. “Is unimportant,” he said. Leigh-Cheri got the impression that females counted for little in the land of the Fizels, and that, doubtlessly, was one reason she looked at the diamond ring with no more enthusiasm than most people looked at cigarette packages- looked but chose not to see.

“What is this golden ball of which you have the curiosity?” asked A’ben the night the subject abruptly arose.
Leigh-Cheri didn’t answer. She couldn’t answer. She was immersed in the silent zone, where to become motionless is to be elsewhere.
“If you want this golden ball, I buy it. Do not to worry of expense.”
Still she didn’t reply. Noticing that she was holding the Vaseline jar, transfixed by the bashful yet sensuous glow of its contents, and recalling that in America “ball” was a slangy euphemism for coitus, A’ben began to wonder if “golden ball” didn’t refer to some special kind of sexual intercourse in which he wasn’t versed. Maybe it referred to sexual perfection, the ultimate ball, and maybe he had failed to provide it, and maybe Vaseline was supposed to help. Smitten for the first time in his life with pangs of self-doubt, he asked sulkily, “This golden ball, it is something you have had with the Woodpecker man?”
A’ben had never mentioned the Woodpecker before, and it was jolting enough to cause Leigh-Cheri to come back from her reverie, although the phrase “come back” is misleading because in the realm of meditative daydream the only way to “go there” is, paradoxically, to totally “be here.”
“Er, uh, not exactly,” she stammered. She returned the Vaseline to the bedside table, withdrawing her gaze from the sea light of its luminous goo. “He, ah, he said something to me once. I only just now understood what he meant.”
Accepting her explanation in all of its inadequacy, Fizel permitted the subject to be changed to limestone. The next morning, however, he fired messages to customs officials at every point of entry in the Arab world demanding that any traveler bearing a passport in the name of Bernard Mickey Wrangle be turned away. Forcefully, if necessary.
83
LESS THAN A MONTH LATER, believe it or not, a man bearing just such a passport stepped off a plane in Algiers. When informed that he could not enter Algeria, he put up a fight and was taken into custody.
A’ben Fizel was notified. Fizel sent the Algerian police commissioner a case of cognac, a tub of caviar, and a pearl-handled riding crop that had once belonged to King Faruk. “Wrangle is a dangerous international thug with Zionist affiliations,” cabled Fizel. “He should be detained in maximum security. Indefinitely. Which most suits your taste in motor cars, commissioner, the American Lincoln Continental or the German Mercedes-Benz?”
Fizel then proceeded to add a hundred workmen to the crew at the pyramid. Work was to continue around the clock until the limestone facing was on and the inner chambers met Princess Leigh-Cheri’s specifications. Fizel also ordered his palace staff to speed up preparations for the wedding.

84
YOU WOULD THINK that an electric typewriter would know better than to bite the hand that pays the light bill. Yet the Remington SL3, in its wanton dedication to humdrum technological practicality, persists in obstructing attempts at old-fashioned literary genius. You would think that a woman obsessed with building a full-sized pyramid in the last quarter of the twentieth century would know better than to cross the one man who could make it possible. Yet Leigh-Cheri had refused A’ben’s embrace and was speaking to him sharply.
“Why the hell am I being guarded?” she demanded. “Why do I trip over those two lummoxes every time I turn around?”
Leigh-Cheri’s enthusiasm for sex simultaneously delighted and frightened A’ben Fizel. Months before, he had secretly assigned a eunuch to keep watch on her, assuring that her passions were not so rudderless as to allow her to drift into another’s arms. She was, after all, left alone a great deal, and he was uncertain if two services a week were sufficient to cool her racy motor. Upon learning that a Bernard Mickey Wrangle had been apprehended in Algiers, A’ben had doubled the guard. It became obvious to Leigh-Cheri that the pair was camping outside her door.
“Those men of which you call dumb oxes are trusted by me. They are to-” “Spy on me.”
“No. No!” He shook his head forcefully. “They are to protect you.” “From what?”
“From the bad men. You could be kidnap. Men that your television call ‘terrorist’ do such things. Ways of Middle East are not familiar to you.”
That should have calmed her. She was aware that abductions and skyjackings were fairly common political tactics in that part of the globe. But red hair is slow to lay back once it’s got its dandruff up, and her bitchy mood required further opportunity to express itself.
“I’m familiar enough with Middle Eastern customs to know that Moslems don’t eat or make love on Saturdays. Why do you always visit me on a holy day? A day you don’t dare to be seen in a disco, right? Your countrymen refuse to work on the pyramid on Saturdays, you have to hire Greeks. I’ll bet they don’t know how you spend your holy day. No meat on Saturday, A’ben. Right? No meat on Saturday.”
The lids drooped like paper wrappers over his chocolate-drop eyes. A guilty tic began to palpitate in the left corner of his mouth. “Perhaps I am too long in America,” he said softly. “Perhaps I am too much confuse Mecca with between your thighs.”

Leigh-Cheri had to laugh. “Thighs, A’ben.” She opened her negligee and patted herself. “These are called thighs.”
His eyes watered. His lower lip quivered like a snail that had just learned the meaning of escargot. Sorry now, she set about to kiss the quivers and tics and tears away. Soon the forgotten guards were nudging one another and grinning at the sacrilegious yet not unholy noises escaping from the flat.
85
"IT WON’T BE LONG NOW," said Leigh-Cheri to a spoon. Moorish architects were wont to make their windows look like keyholes, and the redheaded Princess stood at such a window as if she were a bloodshot eye keyhole-peeping at the pyramid while it was being dressed. It was Sunday, a day as milky and muffled in the Moslem world, oddly enough, as it was in Christendom. The day shift, made up mostly of Greek and Yugoslavian masons- the sun-wise Arabs chose to work nights-was on the job, affixing limestone facing, but Leigh-Cheri had given herself a day off.
“It won’t be long now,” said Leigh-Cheri. If there was a trace of anxiety in her voice, the spoon couldn’t tell.
A’ben had loved her well the previous evening, and she’d slept quite late. She lingered over her breakfast tea, then devoted some time to playing with the teaspoon. It was as noon as noon could be when she stood at her window, staring across the shadowless city, low and blanched and jumbled as a boneyard, as a retirement picnic for used-up schoolroom chalk. In the noonday sun, the pyramid, too, gleamed white. Despite the intense heat, the city seemed cold. It was eternally alien to her American temperament. But the pyramid. . . . The pyramid was real to Leigh-Cheri in a way that buildings of her own society were not.
How can one thing be more real than any other? Especially when it is inscrutable and mysterious? Maybe when a thing is perceived as being absolutely direct yet absolutely unnecessary it becomes absolutely genuine. It is real unto itself and does not depend on outside attachments or associations for its reality. The more emotional values attributed to a thing, the more uses to which it can be put, the more effects it produces, then the more illusions it creates. Illusions, like many values themselves, are cloying and false. But straight lines and flat surfaces exude perpetual reality. Especially when no utilitarian function can be perceived. The geometric figure of a pyramid permits the eye to flow around its corners. We don’t have to walk around it to know it completely. To see its front is to see its back. In fact, its front is its back. A pyramid is primary. It is form, not function. It is presence, not effect. We can see it in an instant, yet we continue to read it. It nourishes us over and over. A pyramid is inscrutable

and mysterious not in spite of being elemental but because it is elemental. Free from the hypnotic hysteria of the mechanical, the numbing torpor of the electronic, and the mortal decay of the biological, it rests in vapid splendor between time and space, detached from both, representing neither, and helps to devaluate the myth of progress.
Of course, Leigh-Cheri never thought of the pyramid in terms of geometric truth. Even the mental processes that nurtured her theory hadn’t carried her that far into the ozone of explanation (academic analysis is the true “outer space,” frigid light years away from the solid joys of the earth), and she was too young to remember Connie Francis singing “Is it really real?” When Leigh-Cheri looked at the pyramid, her pyramid, she simply experienced the giddy sensation of having thrust her hand into the hip pocket of destiny.
She held the teaspoon in front of her eyes and moved it along the horizon lines until the distant monument appeared to be sitting in its hollow. Then she pretended to feed the pyramid to herself. “Mmmm,” she said. “Needs salt.”
If there was anxiety in her jest, the spoon couldn’t tell.
86
ONCE UPON A TIME (to borrow a phrase from the story with which
Gulietta imprinted Leigh-Cheri) a rickety, mistreated old drudge of a truck, rusty, dusty, and packed, headlamp to tailgate, with the few possessions and many children of a family of Okie fruit-pickers, rattled to a halt across the highway from a crossroads gas station in the Walla Walla Valley. A child about two years old, still in diapers-in fact, wearing nothing but diapers-climbed down from the truck, which was beanshooting out its exhaust pipe drops of oil the size of the grapes of wrath. The child toddled across the blacktop. Although apparently male, it pushed into the station’s women’s toilet, where it remained for what seemed like an inordinately long time. Perhaps it was having trouble with the diaper pins. Meanwhile, the Okie at the wheel was mashing the gas feed impatiently, and the dirty kids in the rear were pounding on top of the cab. Finally, just as the bare feet of the toddler emerged from the restroom, the driver popped the clutch, and the truck lurched away. The child stared in disbelief at the disappearing vehicle, then went pattering after it. “Wait for Baby,” he yelled. “Wait for Baby, you sons of bitches!"
This scene was witnessed by one Dude Wrangle, a former rodeo contender and failed Hollywood cowboy (hence the snazzy name, Dude’s original moniker was something on the order of Bernie Snootch) who had become, in mid-life, a prosperous onion rancher. When the truck neither stopped nor turned around, Dude bought the tot a Pepsi and invited him to sit in his Cadillac convertible. The kid was suspicious, but the lure of the Caddy was more than he could resist.

Dude both pitied the child and admired his spirit. He also liked his red curls and the freckles that were as rosy as hypodermic wounds. So he sat with him, playing the radio for him and feeding him Hostess Twinkies, until dusk. Then, convinced that the migrant family wouldn’t return, Dude drove him, freckles and all, to the Cry-Me-a-River Onion Farm.
“Hi, Kathleen. Hi, Kathleen. Sorry I’m late, but it’s hard work making a young’un all by yourself. Specially when the little bugger’s damn near two years old. Here, come tell me how I done. Tell me how I done.”
A few years before, Dude Wrangler had swept the feet out from under a young philosophy professor at Whitman College, and she’d given up Spinoza for a satin-shirted satyr, an unpainted ranch house, and all the famous Walla Walla sweet onions she could eat. (Prior to teaching at Whitman, she’d thought Walla Walla sweets played pool with Minnesota Fats. ) Kathleen had a pretty face and a shiny intellect but bum plumbing. Try as they might, they couldn’t get her pregnant. She was overwhelmed by this ready-made kid that Dude thrust at her. She hastened to give him a bath, then tucked him into her own bed. She stayed awake all night watching him. Baby whimpered a little before falling asleep, but morning found him cheerful and none too eager to be reunited with the sons of bitches.
This was in the Walla Walla Valley in the eastern part of Washington State, two hundred miles and two hundred yawns from Seattle, out where the apples were knocking their chins together and the sky was just too blue to be in good taste. In the dialect of the local Indians, walla meant water. When the Indians first discovered, cutting through the hellish hills, a fertile valley yodeling with brooks and rivers, they doubled up and called the place Walla Walla. “Water here and plenty of it,” “A far greater abundance of moisture than one would have expected to find in these dusty parts,” or, in the ethno-lingo that white folks enjoy, “Land of many waters.” Had the valley been really wet, had it canals, swamps, and lagoons, they might have named it Walla Walla Walla. Maybe even Walla Walla Walla Walla. Had those same Indians ever hit Puget Sound in the rainy season, there would have been virtually no end to their wallaing.
Dude Wrangle had been born and raised in Walla Walla, which might account for the fact that as a child he developed a tiresome habit of saying everything twice. “Please can I? Please can I?” “I hate stinking stewed tomatoes. I hate stinking stewed tomatoes.” “Pee. Pee.” It was an idiosyncrasy that he never outgrew, and it was his habit of repeating his lines that was as responsible as anything for his failure in the movies. No director wanted to have the posse told to “Head ’em off at the pass” two times in succession, and it somehow spoiled the mood of a tense evening in Comanche territory when the hero said,

“Sure is quiet out there tonight. Sure is quiet out there tonight.” Yeah, Wrangle, it was quiet until you started babbling.
Adopted by the Wrangles, Baby became accustomed to Dude’s repetitions, which is probably why, years later, he had felt so at home in Hawaii with its loma loma and mahi mahi.
Growing up on the Cry-Me-a-River Onion Farm, the abandoned redhead learned philosophy from Kathleen and the wiles and ways of the drugstore cowboy from Dude. Everybody around Walla Walla called him Baby, for he had no other name until he was fifteen, at which time he was shipped off to a fancy academy in Switzerland because Kathleen didn’t want him turning out to be another Walla Walla hayseed and Dude was upset by both the quantity and quality of the mischief he was getting into in public school. On the night before his departure for Geneva, Dude and Kathleen shared a quart of sourmash hootch with him and christened him Bernard Mickey.
Being a bit hungover, the three of them arrived late at the Spokane airport the next day, and Bernard Mickey had to run to catch his flight. As he dashed toward the boarding gate, he yelled, “Wait for Baby! Wait for Baby, you sons of bitches!” He looked over his shoulder at his foster parents, laughed wildly, and threw them a kiss.
They laughed and threw kisses, too.
“Keep your nose clean, darling,” sang Kathleen.
And Dude bellowed, “Do us proud, you hear. Do us proud, you hear.” Now, even though he was reared amidst redundancy, it would seem that the
kind of hip guy Bernard Mickey Wrangle turned out to be wouldn’t have had to be ordered to halt more than once by an Algerian jailer with a machine gun. Wouldn’t it seem that way?
87
LEIGH-CHERI DIDN’T LEARN of the shooting until a month after it happened. Then, it was Queen Tilli who informed her.
At Gulietta’s request, Max’s homeland paid him a substantial sum so that he might retire in dignity, independent of the American government. Max immediately divided the funds, giving half to Tilli and taking his half to Reno, where he intended to gamble until his valve blew out. He checked into a modest hotel and went every morning to the casinos, committing suicide by wheel of fortune. He telephoned Tilli twice a week, ever assuring her that he was winning money and enjoying good health. “I feel better away from the blackberries,” he said. The Queen suspected that he was fibbing to ease her worry, so she arranged to stop off in Reno on her way to the Mideast for Leigh-Cheri’s wedding.
To her surprise, she found her husband the toast of the town. He was the

season’s big winner, and everybody from casino managers to star entertainers to taxi drivers always greeted King Max. He demanded little but tipped large. He made donations to local charities. He bought drinks for doormen, sent the kind of flowers to coffee-shop waitresses that other big winners sent to showgirls. As for his heart, it was chugging along, although the doctors warned that it could derail at any moment. “I only pray that it goes at the roulette table,” said Max, dropping a third lump of sugar like a depth charge into his tea. “I’ll place every last cent on red thirteen and, win or lose, expire like a monarch.”
It was while Tilli was sitting in the hotel lobby waiting for Max to come down for breakfast-he’d gambled until 3:00 A.M.-that she’d noticed the article. She’d picked up a copy of an underground newspaper, the Philadelphia Drummer, that a couple of bearded young men with backpacks had forgotten on a lobby sofa. Tilli intended to spread the paper on the floor of her room so that her Chihuahua might do its little business thereupon and not soil the rug. As she was folding the Drummer into her handbag, her eyes came to rest on an article concerning an incident in Algiers. According to an exclusive report, Algerian guards had machine-gunned an American citizen, Bernard Mickey Wrangle, thirty six, who, as the Woodpecker, had led a notorious gang of bomb-throwing war resisters during the late sixties and early seventies. Algeria was covering up the incident, the article said, but, it went on to say, it was common knowledge in the Casbah that Wrangle, arrested earlier on a passport violation, had been killed while trying to escape.
“Oh-Oh, spaghetti-o,” uttered Queen Tilli. The yelps of her doggie as it slid off her lap made short work of her next remark.
88
"YOU KNOW, Tilli, I can’t help but feel a little sad about Wrangle.” The King poured maple syrup on his waffle. The syrup puddled the depressions in the waffle the way that desire puddles the folds in the brain. “I detest what he stood for, but I have to admire the fact that he stood for something, that he was prepared to carve the roast instead of waiting for some superior to toss him a bone. He was better company than those serious-minded environmentalists that Leigh-Cheri was always dragging home. Except that he wanted to plant blackberries on the rooftops of Seattle. My God! Barbaric!” Max’s heart valve did an imitation of a robot having a bowel movement.
“It says in this article-pass the butter-that Wrangle was suspected of helping hijack an airliner to Cuba back in seventy-one. Yet he was not a Marxist. He did it out of general contempt for government. What makes an intelligent, courageous man disrespect the law to such an extent? In games of chance, one plays by the rules. Rules give poker its shape, its substance, its tension, its life.

Poker without rules would be pointless and boring. And those who cheat the rules cannot be allowed to play. In the old days they were shot. I guess that is what happened to our Mr. Wrangle. More syrup.”
“In health there ees also rules,” said Tilli, “und you are zee vorse ven it come to breaking dem. No! No more syrup, you break-lawer.”
“When I disobey the doctor’s orders, Tilli, it affects no one but me. Should I break the rules in poker, everybody at the table would feel the effects. That is what Wrangle did, and that is why he is dead. Surely I will be dead soon, too, but I am forty years older than he, and death is not my punishment, it is my reward.” Like metal fatigue, a smile creased the fusilage of Max’s DC-10 face. “Well, should I run into him in the next world, we shall have an amusing chat. He was-”
“All zis is not zee point,” said Tilli, wiping syrup off three of her four chins. “Zee point is dat he ees killed and I spoke wif Leigh-Cheri on der phone two nights ago und she don’t know nuffin of thees. Should I tell her or not?”
“Of course you should tell her. She has a right to know. There is no reason to conceal his demise. She is not in love with him any longer.” A pause ensued during which Max pondered his statement. “But, uh, Tilli,” he said at last, “I would wait to tell her until after she is married. Okay?”
“Eef you tink zo.” Tilli wrapped bacon slices in a napkin to carry to her pooch.
“Did you read this? Allegedly, Wrangle landed in Havana in the month of December. He was surprised to find that since going Communist the Cubans no longer observed Christmas. So when he met Fidel Castro, Wrangle called him a rebel without a Claus. Ha ha. Quite the joker, eh?”
Tilli didn’t get it.
89
THERE HAD TO BE ONE MOMENT, a single isolated moment, pear-
shaped, quivering, and outlined in radium, when Beethoven inked the final note of his Fifth Symphony, when Shakespeare chose the word ("shoot") that completed Hamlet, when Leonardo applied the brush stroke that shoved Mona Lisa onto the Louvre express. Such a moment occurred, at least in the mind of Princess Leigh-Cheri, when the last slab of facing was cemented in place on the capstone point of the modern pyramid. Both depressed and elated (as Beethoven, Shakespeare, and Leonardo must have been), all she could say was, “Done."
Her real task had, of course, just begun. According to Manly P. Hall, “All the wisdom possessed by the ancients seems to have been epitomized in the structure of the Great Pyramid, and he [sic] who solves it riddle must necessarily be as wise as he [sic] who contrived it.”

Leigh-Cheri wasn’t exactly trying to solve the riddle of the Great Pyramid, but she did aspire to understand the peculiar properties of pyramids, in general, and their application to the improvement of the human race, and she was aware that both she and her team of scientists would require capabilities beyond the ordinary. She was also aware of her lack of expertise, of the terrible ignorance she brought to this enterprise. In secret, she was counting on the Red Beards, that they would somehow intervene . . .
At any rate, it was done. And it was gorgeous. Impressive. Awesome. Hers. Well, almost hers. A’ben had promised to give it to her as a wedding present, with the stipulation that she lease, free of charge, its outer chambers to his government. So it was in two days to be her very own toy, the largest, heaviest, most expensive, most perfect toy on earth. And yet, try as she might, she couldn’t think of it as exclusively hers; as much as it was the mighty egg of her dreaming, she couldn’t feel close to it. The Dean of Inanimate Objects at Outlaw College would attribute the pyramid’s detachment, as compared to the Camel pack’s intimacy, to relative scale. Objects smaller than the human body, says the dean, possess the quality of privateness. Objects larger than the human body possess the quality of publicness. The larger the object, the less private and more public its mode. We might question the dean, provided we could get his nose out of a tequila bottle or his girlfriend’s panties, about the moon. The moon is a hell of a lot bigger than the biggest pyramid and can be seen by far more people at any one time. The moon is about as public as a thing can be. Yet the moon seldom fails to invoke a sense of intimacy. We might logically assume that since two of the moon’s primary characteristics-light and gravitational pull-directly, personally affect us, that that is the source of its intimate nature. Unfortunately, logic doesn’t cut the mustard at Outlaw C. The dean would snort, puff his cheap cigar, and contend that the moon is as intimate as it is public because of its markings. As with many ornaments of tiny size, its sense of intimacy is exploited through surface detail. Surface incident sets up internal relationships, and internal relationships break down the external gestalt, the publicness. The Fizel Pyramid (as it was to be forever known), its off-white facing intact, was blank. Its profound appeal was in its constant, known physicality, for it lacked any equivalent of those enigmatic, sensuous spots that draw the moon toward intimacy.
Sure, dean, now why don’t you go shoot a game of snooker or something. Don’t call us, we’ll call you. The Remington SL3 is running on empty, and what with thousands of people-invited dignitaries, media representatives, and curious public-pouring in for the pyramid unveiling and the grandest wedding of the decade, we have more than we can handle right now.

Leigh-Cheri has left the pyramid site and is being driven by limousine to her flat, where she will await the two people among the wedding guests who she is excited to see: Queen Tilli and Queen Gulietta.
90
MIRACULOUSLY, the pyramid had been erected in slightly less than two years. Hell, it took that long for union labor to put a fresh coat of paint on the Golden Gate Bridge. It seemed to take that long for Leigh-Cheri’s limo to get back to her flat. The usual swarms of bazaar hawkers, camel drivers, snake charmers, monkey pipers, boy and girl prostitutes, beggars, dancers, shoppers, religious zealots, and soldiers had tripled. There were a half-dozen clustered around every foreign infidel, and there were more foreign infidels than the city had seen since the Crusades. A’ben Fizel had promised them foreign infidels, and there they were, cameras, spare change, and everything. The streets were festive, and traffic moved like flies through a sieve.
It was Sunday, and for once the day wasn’t bleached out. Not entirely bleached, that is. The busiest, loudest Sunday will always seem subdued next to the quietest Saturday. You go to paint the town red on a Sunday, you’d better be prepared for pink. No matter. It was Sunday, and things were fairly hopping. The big day was Tuesday. In the garden of the Fizel palace, Leigh-Cheri and A’ben would marry at dawn. The ceremony would be private and small. There would follow an equally small and private reception in the innermost chamber of the pyramid. Concealed from the condemning eyes of teetotalling Moslems, the newly married couple could wet their newly married whistles. At nine, champagne toasts dutifully drunk, the wedding party would emerge to preside over the official dedication of the pyramid. There would follow a day-long reception outside the main entrance, in attendance at which would be enough sheiks, sultans, shahs, emirs, wizirs, wazoos, and exalted omnipotent potentates to bring every Shriners’ convention ever held to its knees. Plenty of European posh would also be on hand, making non-alcoholic merry until dusk, at which time Ihaj Fizel’s own Boeing 747 would transport the bride and groom to Paris for a honeymoon. That was Tuesday. Monday, Leigh-Cheri could spend with Tilli and Gulietta. Provided she got back to her flat.
91
TILLI WAS SO NAIVE she still thought Jiminy Cricket sang songs by rubbing his hind legs together. She believed the cocaine was some kind of head- cold remedy, although it seemed a trifle odd that it came packaged in a plastic frog. Besides, neither Gulietta nor Leigh-Cheri seemed so ill that they should have to treat their noses every half hour all day. “Vhy don’t I just make you a pot of camomile tea?” asked Tilli.

Her daughter and her former servant looked at each other and giggled. Cocaine, cocaine, the musical fruit
The more you have the more you toot
The more you toot the better you feel
So sniff some wiff instead of a meal,
they harmonized. Only Leigh-Cheri’s part was in English.
That’s how Monday went. The three women remained in the flat all day,
interrupted once by the dressmakers who came for a final fitting of Leigh- Cheri’s gown. The older women wept to see her in wedding costume, but Gulietta was quickly beaming again. Her plastic frog was filled to the gills with the purest snow to sift out of the Bolivian jungle in many a winter, and she and the Princess were having themselves a party. In her fashion, Queen Tilli was enjoying herself, too. She’d splurged on a jeweled collar for her Chihuahua to wear to the ceremony, and she slipped it over the little mutt’s neck several times during the day. “Zee emeralds zey go so nice mit his eyes, don’t you tink?”
The queens, as well as the Princess, had been invited to numerous swell soirees, but they chose to spend this time together. Who knew when they would meet again?
Tilli had decided to move to Reno to be at Max’s side when he placed his last bet. There was not a note of serious music in Reno. Tilli would have to content herself with the slot machine chorus, singing lemons, cherries, silver dollar dreams, and twenty-five-cent disappointments forever. A jackpot and a heart valve, partners in an aria, dying in each other’s arms, end of Act IV, Reno Grand Opera.
Gulietta’s role in the affairs of her nation had been determined by the rebels to be that of most modern-day monarchs-something more, perhaps, than a representative functionary but certainly not an initiator of political action. Yet the old woman had emerged as the most powerful figure in the government. When Gulietta decreed that there would be no nuclear plants within her borders, the ministers were forced to cancel their orders for reactors. “Our resources shall be the sun, the wind, the rivers, and the moon,” she announced. “The moon?” they asked. “You can’t get energy from the moon.” “You are mistaken,” said Gulietta. Now she had to go home and show them why they were wrong. Already, thanks to her lunar awareness program (based in part on Leigh-Cheri’s attic experience), all the women in the country were menstruating simultaneously, and all babies were being born at full moon. “It will be a bit more difficult,” she said, “teaching men to see in the dark.”
As for Leigh-Cheri, she had to take care of some business involving a pyramid. And the bridegroom who’d paid for it.

So the three women spent this last day together. They were warm and close. Occasionally, Tilli would forget and order Gulietta to perform some menial task, whereupon Leigh-Cheri’d remind her mom just who was the reigning monarch among them, and they’d have a good laugh. Laughter came easily. Gulietta and Leigh-Cheri were as buzzed as the door button at a discount whorehouse, and Tilli was happy that the Princess was marrying a man who could afford a three- hundred-million-dollar wedding present, although his father’s habit of munching sheep’s eyes off the tip of a scimitar aroused misgivings in her concerning genealogy.
After an early dinner, they reluctantly broke up the party. The wedding was at dawn, and dawn had a nasty habit of showing up before breakfast. Leigh- Cheri walked Tilli and Gulietta downstairs to the limo that would drive them to their hotel. Before she maneuvered her bulk into the car, Tilli passed Leigh- Cheri an envelope. Supposedly, it contained a personal message from King Max explaining why he hadn’t come to the wedding and expressing his love for his daughter. Alas, Tilli produced the wrong missive. By mistake, she gave Leigh- Cheri an envelope containing printed accounts of the Woodpecker’s death (other newspapers had picked up and amplified the original story from the Drummer).
Back upstairs, the Princess turned the letter opener over and over in her fingers. The letter opener was made of ivory. It’s handle had been carved to resemble an animal. Exactly what kind of animal Leigh-Cheri couldn’t say. It wasn’t a frog. It wasn’t a chipmunk, running running running at the center of the earth. Perhaps it was some kind of Arabic animal. Leigh-Cheri put the opener to its intended purpose. Snicker snee, snicker snee. Pushing a tiny curl of paper in front of it, the letter opener made its ragged incision. Leigh-Cheri reached in and pulled out the newsprint tumor.
92
"I DON’T KNOW WHY I’m carrying on like this,” said the Princess. “I guess Nina Jablonski was right when she called me a crybaby.” She blew her nose. Sometimes a woman blowing her nose can sound as soft and poignant as a rubber horse deflating after being punctured by a seashell.
“The silly red-headed son-of-a-bitch didn’t know as much about love as I thought he did. He didn’t even know as much about being an outlaw as I thought he did. Done in by a stupid Arab jailer. Jeeze! But he was a genuine human being. By God, Bernard Mickey Wrangle was real.”
How can one person be more real than any other? Well, some people do hide and others seek. Maybe those who are in hiding-escaping encounters, avoiding surprises, protecting their property, ignoring their fantasies, restricting their feelings, sitting out the Pan pipe hootchy-kootch of experience-maybe those

people, people who won’t talk to rednecks, or if they’re rednecks won’t talk to intellectuals, people who’re afraid to get their shoes muddy or their noses wet, afraid to eat what they crave, afraid to drink Mexican water, afraid to bet a long shot to win, afraid to hitchhike, jaywalk, honky-tonk, cogitate, osculate, levitate, rock it, bop it, sock it, or bark at the moon, maybe such people are simply inauthentic, and maybe the jackleg humanist who says differently is due to have his tongue fried on the hot slabs of Liar’s Hell. Some folks hide, and some folks seek, and seeking, when it’s mindless, neurotic, desperate, or pusillanimous can be a form of hiding. But there are folks who want to know and aren’t afraid to look and won’t turn tail should they find it-and if they never do, they’ll have a good time anyway because nothing, neither the terrible truth nor the absence of it, is going to cheat them out of one honest breath of earth’s sweet gas.
“Maybe he was an insane bastard, but he was a genuine insane bastard,” said Leigh-Cheri, “and I loved him more than I’ve ever loved anybody-or ever will.” At that, she began to blubber again.
The clock was messing around with midnight, and midnight was messing around with her head when she found herself at the pyramid. There was no rational reason for being at the pyramid except that she couldn’t sleep, didn’t wish to disturb Gulietta or her mom, and from her window, she had spied the limo driver in the alley outside her flat dozing at the wheel. She wanted to say, “Drive me to Algiers to Bernard’s grave.” Or, “Drive me to Husky Stadium, it’s time for cheerleader practice.” Or, “Drive me to Hawaii, to Mu and the moon.” But she’d said, “To the pyramid,” and hoped against hope that there’d be solace there.
In the clear desert night, the stars were as wild as popcorn. The moon appeared to have already set, but the pyramid site was lit up like a midway. Thirty or forty workers were still on the job, applying finishing touches, readying the temporary wooden platform for the morning’s ceremonies. The entrance was wide open, which was lucky because she’d forgotten her key. She walked down the long corridor to the central chamber.
Adjacent to the central chamber was a fully equipped physics laboratory and several nicely appointed offices, including an office of her own. The central chamber had been left bare, however. It was strictly unadorned stone. The central chamber was where the magic happened, and in an effort to keep it as much like the Great Pyramid’s as possible, Leigh-Cheri hadn’t even allowed it to be wired for electricity. There were several oil lamps affixed to the granite walls, and that was that. The lamps were antiques-they might have illuminated Cleopatra’s pajama parties-and it took Leigh-Cheri five minutes of fumbling to get one burning. When it finally blazed, she shrieked-for its flare revealed a

figure lurking in the chamber. She was not alone. 93
INITIALLY, she thought it was a workman. Then the lamplight fell on his bright red beard. She shrieked again. Her spine tingled like the elements in a toaster, not that she was in any mood for rye. Holy Mother of God the Surpriser! It was one of them!
What do you say to an Argonian space traveler in a pyramid at midnight? Care for a Camel, sailor?
Leigh-Cheri didn’t say anything. She’d lost the ability to speak. She just stood there with the toaster going, trying to decide whether to faint or not, until the Red Beard understood that if there was going to be any conversation he’d have to get the ball rolling, so he opened a mouthful of ruined teeth and said:
“Hello, dragon bait.”
She fainted.
94
SHE WOKE UP with her head on a bomb. He’d made her a pillow out of his
jacket and hadn’t bothered to take the dynamite out of it. “You’re dead.”
“Not so.”
“Not so?”
“You can bank on it.”
She was blinking rapidly and swallowing hard. “Well then . . . a mistake?” “Only natural.”
“Was this one of your cute tricks?”
“Nope. This was a matter of luck. Good luck for me. Bad luck for
Birdfeeder.”
“Who? Bernard, I haven’t seen you in two and a half years. First you’re
dead, then you’re not. Who are you talking about? What are you talking about?” “A con named Perdy Birdfeeder did me what I thought was a favor.
Apparently I erred-but that’s another story. Perdy the Purse had a mind to retire to the French Riviera. He heard that business opportunities were handsome there. I arranged for him to meet a bartender in Pioneer Square, a pal who was minding my personal papers. Out of fourteen possible passports, Perdy chose the one with my legal alias on it-”
“Your legal alias?”
“Yeah. Alias Bernard M. Wrangle. My real name is Baby. Don’t laugh. I’m sensitive. Anyhow, Birdfeeder didn’t fare well on the Riviera. He split for North Africa, still using my passport. He didn’t fare so hot there, either. Algiers must be a rotten place to die, although I suppose it’s preferable to Tacoma.”

“Bernard, what are you doing here?”
“Right now I’m wondering whether or not you’re glad I’m undead.” Leigh-Cheri rose shakily to her feet. She was practically as tall as Bernard,
and she looked him in the eye for a long time. “Once in Hawaii, before I hardly even knew you, I thought you’d been arrested, and for some reason I went running to your boat in a panic. Tonight, I thought you were dead. There wasn’t any boat to run to.”
She intended to continue, but the crybaby in her reared its salty head. Bernard put his arms around her. She put hers around him, and they stood that way for . . . well, who knows how long. Long enough for the two eunuchs who’d followed Leigh-Cheri to the pyramid to figure it was a development worth interrupting A’ben Fizel’s bachelor party for.
95
"WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE, Bernard?"
“Something corny and dramatic. I have tendencies.”
“Come to rescue me, have you? Peel the dragon bait off the hook?”
“I came to make boom-boom.”
“Jesus! I might have guessed. Here? Right here?” She stepped out of his
embrace.
“It’d take a nuke to dent this rock pile. I stopped in here for a nibble of
pastry"-he gestured at the many-layered wedding cake that sat upon a table at the far end of the chamber-"while waiting for the coast to clear so I could climb to the top. I was going to blow off the point.”
“Why, for God’s sake?”
“A wedding present. There was nothing else I could give you that Fizel doesn’t already own six of. Boom-boom. You’d have known it was me?”
“Naturally. You have a talent for bombing the wrong target.”
“Ouch. That stings. But, listen, the pyramid on the dollar bill has had its top lifted off. It’s tradition. Or self-fulfilling prophecy. So what do you mean wrong target?”
“Aside from being incredibly beautiful, this rock pile, as you call it, is the most important structure to be built on the planet in thousands of years. You of all people should understand that.”
“How do you figure?”
“You were alone with a package of Camels. Didn’t you get the message?” “Which message? I was advised not to look for premiums or coupons and
that smoking is dangerous to my health.”
“I was referring to a different message.” “Which is-?”

“If you don’t know-and I’m not convinced that you don’t-there isn’t time now for me to tell you.”
“That’s right. Zero hour is fast approaching. Leigh-Cheri, I can’t believe you’re marrying a guy with black hair.”
“Hair has got nothing to do with it. But while we’re on the subject, I don’t like your beard. Makes you look like Jack the Ripper.”
“Jack never wore a beard. Are you hostile because I was going to knock the tip off of your pyramid?”
“That. And your note.”
“Ah, the note. That note was all punch and no moves, I admit. It sounded a whole lot harsher than intended. I was annoyed at the publicity, it smacked of the old save-the-world syndrome, but I wasn’t meaning to be cold-”
“Barking at the moon?”
“What about it?”
“That’s all our love was to you?”
“That’s all love ever is. Love is not a harpsichord concert in a genteel
drawing room. And it sure as hell isn’t Social Security, Laetrile, the Irish Sweepstakes, or roller disco. Love is private and primitive and a bit on the funky and frightening side. I think of the Luna card in the Tarot deck: some strange, huge crustacean, its armor glistening and its pinchers wiggling, clatters out of a pool while wild dogs howl at a bulging moon. Underneath the hearts and flowers, love is loony like that. Attempts to housebreak it, to refine it, to dress the crabs up like doves and make them sing soprano always result in thin blood. You end up with a parody. There’re lots of pretty sounds that describe ‘like,’ but ‘love’ is more on the order of barking. I’m sorry about the note, though. I wrote you another, softer one, but by the time I’d lined up a postman, you’d already galloped out of Seattle on the sultan’s main dromedary. Maybe I couldn’t blame you-but I could ache.”
Leigh-Cheri walked back into his arms. He’d been standing with them open like a bear in a taxidermist’s window. Again they hugged for a long time, holding on to one another and not quite sure why. It was in that position, looking over Bernard’s shoulder, that she saw A’ben Fizel at the chamber entrance. She felt the twitching of certain major nerves, but before she could direct a reaction in any one of her muscles, Fizel slammed the door. She held her breath, straining to hear if the key was going to turn in the lock.
It turned.
96
"AT LEAST IT’LL BE AWHILE before we die of hunger or thirst,” said
Bernard. He’d popped a bottle of champagne and was making a move for the

wedding cake.
“Don’t,” snapped the Princess. She snatched his hand away from the
centerpiece.
“Excuse me. I assumed the reception had been cancelled.” He replaced the
champagne.
“Of course it’s been cancelled. Of course it has. That was silly of me. Go
ahead and eat all the goddamn cake you want. Here.” She tore off a chunk and, dripping frosting, handed it to Bernard. The icing oozing between her fingers reminded him of days in the mountains when the Woodpecker Gang had had snowball fights just to keep its blood circulating.
“Well, I do have a sweet tooth. But don’t worry. I’m gonna have it extracted in the morning.”
“Champagne?” Before offering it to him, Leigh-Cheri took a swig from the bottle. So many bubbles shot up her nasal passages she could barely breathe. She felt as if she were Saturday night television and there were an orchestra up her nose.
“Champagne was discovered by a Catholic monk,” said Bernard. “Took one swallow and burst out of his cellar yelling, ‘I’m drinking stars, I’m drinking stars!’ Tequila was invented by a bunch of brooding Indians. Into human sacrifice and pyramids. Somewhere between champagne and tequila is the secret history of Mexico, just as somewhere between beef jerky and Hostess Twinkies is the secret history of America. Or aren’t you in the mood for epigrams?”
“Bernard, are we in a fix?”
“You tell me. I’m unfamiliar with the gentleman’s habits. How long does he carry a grudge?”
“He’ll have to let us out soon. He’ll have to. My mother’s in town. So’s Gulietta. The press is all over the place. He’ll have to let us out before dawn.”
“In that case, my dear, more champagne. The cake’s delicious, by the way. I feel festive. Inappropriate of me, I’m sure.”
Leigh-Cheri managed a small laugh. “I’m strangely elated myself. It’s weird. Everything I’ve dreamed of and worked for and counted on is falling apart, and I’m happy. I’m also freezing.”
She was wearing blue jeans and a green, sleeveless cotton blouse. Bernard wrapped his black cord jacket around her. Dynamite sticks banged her breasts. She continued to shiver, so he ripped the lace tablecloth from beneath the cake, and they both huddled under it, like a couple in a blanket at the Harvard- Princeton game. “The central chamber of the Great Pyramid is a constant sixty- four degrees Fahrenheit,” she said. “I was aiming to achieve the same conditions here. Sixty-four is sure a long ways from Maui.”

“Seeing as we have some time to kill, why don’t you tell me about this pyramid? Why it’s important and what I was supposed to learn about it from my cigarettes.”
“It’s a bit late, you big dummy,” she said. But since the champagne was so sidereal and the cake so snowy and slick, and since it was impossible to distinguish Harvard from Princeton by the light of Cleopatra’s lantern, she began to tell him. The whole story.
Meanwhile, the police were poking through her wrecked flat and A’ben Fizel was busily spreading the word that his bride-to-be had been kidnapped by Zionist terrorists.
97
KIDNAPPED BY FRENCH CHAMPAGNE was more like it. The champagne had hold of them both, and not a ransom note in sight.
“I’m peeing stars!” the Princess squealed.
Bernard produced a pack of Camels from his shirt pocket. He put it through toy UFO maneuvers while making bleeping noises of the third kind.
Leigh-Cheri returned. “I got stars on my shoes,” she complained.
Bernard buzzed her with the package.
“Is this your response to my theory?”
“Remember the couple from Argon? I ran into them last month in the Ranch
Market on Hollywood Boulevard. Nina Jablonski wrote a film script based on my life and was peddling it to Jane Fonda and Elaine Latourelle. Teen-Aged Bomber Makes the Big Time. I went to L.A. to stop it, and there they were in the Ranch Market. Buying piña colada mix. Does that queer your theory?”
“Minor setback. What about what we saw on the High Jinks? That was no piña colada, mon amore.”
“We saw what we saw. In the Hawaiian sky and at the Ranch Market. I get nervous when you talk about UFOs because I suspect you’re looking for salvation from them. What I like about flying saucers is that we don’t really know if they’re gonna save us or sink us. Or neither. Or both. They seem to operate with a sense of humor. I like to think of them as outlaws of space. I like to think they could be launched from the Ranch Market as easily as from Haleakala or Argon. Damn, this stuff is tasty.”
“You’ve opened another bottle? Bernard!”
“Yum!”
“Well, then . . . how about the Camel pack?”
“How about Adolph’s Meat Tenderizer? It’s a transparent door to
experience, too, if you know how to look through it.”
“Yeah . . . I have to go along with that. Yeah! That’s it!” She clapped her

hands.
“You found a key to wisdom in the Camel pack. It’s certainly one of the
more portentous of our sacred objects. But there’s lots of others. Personally, I find the kitchen match particularly rich in symbolism, and Dippity-Do hair-set gel is an open invitation to participate in the Tantric aspects of the divine. The thing about Camels, though, is its directness. I mean, it spells it right out. CHOICE. A person’s looking for a simple truth to live by, there it is. CHOICE. To refuse to passively accept what we’ve been handed by nature or society, but to choose for ourselves. CHOICE. That’s the difference between emptiness and substance, between a life actually lived and a wimpy shadow cast on an office wall.”
She kissed him impulsively. “I knew you’d understand. Where you been all my life, big boy?”
Bernard passed her the bottle. He began to sing: Twenty froggies went to school
Come on ye Texas Rangers
Down beside a shady pool
Come on ye Texas Rangers
There they learned to work and play
Come on ye Texas Rangers
And drink Lone Star beer all day
Hee hee ye Texas Rangers.
“Bernard, I don’t feel like singing.”
“Sure you do.
The river lies cold and green
The river lies cold and green
Leaves are dropping one by one
And the river lies cold and green.
Funny, rivers always give us ballads. None of that E. E. Cummings stuff.” “Bernard, I want to talk some more.”
“Shoot.”
“You seem to be saying that the ideas I developed in the attic were intrinsic
to the Camel pack, that their origins weren’t necessarily Argonian.” “Maybe the Camel pack is Argon. In my father’s house there are many
mansions. Get my drift? I’m an outlaw not a philosopher, but I know this much: there’s meaning in everything, all things are connected, and a good champagne is a drink.”
Bernard began to sing again. Timidly, Leigh-Cheri joined in. Between verses, they opened another bottle. The popping of its cork echoed throughout

the great stone chamber. Of the three billion people on earth, only Bernard and Leigh-Cheri heard the popping of the cork and its echoes. Only Bernard and Leigh-Cheri passed out under the tablecloth.
98
WHILE THEY WERE SLEEPING, the lamp burned down. They awoke in a blackness so dense it would have put the fear of death into coal tar. Bernard struck a match, and Leigh-Cheri gripped his arm.
“Are you thinking what I’m thinking?” she asked.
“I doubt it. I was thinking about the origin of the word pumpkin. It’s such a cute word. Kind of plump and friendly-and sexy in a farmer’s daughter sort of way. Perfect. I wonder who came up with that word. Some old pumpkin-patch poet in ancient Greece, I suppose. A traveling salesman out of Babylon?”
“Bernard! Knock it off! It’s been hours. I’m sure it’s well past dawn.”
“You’d never know in this bar. Here. Let me light a lamp.” He managed to ignite another of the antique lanterns.
“If he hasn’t let us out by now . . . Bernard! This is no temporary pique. He means to leave us in here.”
“I’m afraid you’re right. There’s no way he could release us now without considerable embarrassment. If he’s like a lot of men, he’d rather be a murderer than a fool.”
Leigh-Cheri was silent for a while. Then, abruptly, she laughed. “But it’s okay, isn’t it?” She flashed him a grin wide enough to deliver the Sunday New York Times through. “You’ve got your dynamite!”
“Precious little good it’ll do us here.”
Her smile snapped shut. Her heart called the New York Times and cancelled its subscription. “What... do... you mean?”
“Three years ago in Hawaii I tried to explain to you about dynamite. A bomb is not one of your pat solutions. Dynamite is a question not an answer. It can keep things from solidifying, it can keep the ticket open. Sometimes, just raising the question is enough to regenerate life, enough to reverse the decay that results from indifference. But dynamite is unless to us here. Sure, we could blast the door down, but there’s no place for us to take cover. The explosion would kill us.”
Leigh-Cheri began to weep. (For a beautiful royal princess she’d certainly shed a lot of tears in her life.) Bernard hugged her tightly. His fingers ran like foxes through the forest fire of her hair. “You know,” he said, “I’ll bet pumpkin is an American word. It just sounds American to me. Sweet dumb well-fed optimistic down-home ball of fun. I think of a Midwest cheerleader getting knocked up on the back seat of a Chevy after a frosty Friday night football game.

You know what I mean? American Pumpkin.” 99
OUTSIDE, a dragnet was being woven. Due to the political climate of the Middle East in the last quarter of the twentieth century, everybody, including Gulietta, had sallowed A’ben Fizel’s story of Zionist abduction. Police from a score of nations and troops from a dozen armies were searching for Princess Leigh-Cheri. Jew and Arab alike searched for her, and in their combined efforts achieved a kind of peaceful cooperation they had all too seldom known.
Inside, it was not unlike McNeil Island or the attic. Bernard and Leigh-Cheri were far better conditioned than most for confinement. There was even a package of Camels to keep them company. To be sure, nobody shoved in lunch plates or chamber pots, but pyramid power kept the wedding cake oven-fresh, and she had her corner for elimination and he his. As the days passed, they rationed increasingly smaller portions of cake and champagne, yet it seemed as if they had an indefinite supply. “What I miss most is the moon,” said Leigh- Cheri. The outlaw said he missed it, too.
What they would do when they were freed and whether or not they’d do it together was a subject they tactically avoided. Obviously, Leigh-Cheri was washed up in that neck of the woods. She’d have to leave her pyramid as far behind as the fiancé who’d built it. And despite certain tingling memories of his long, slippery staff, of its intriguing curve and its violet crown, that could not be too far to suit her.
She might drop in on Gulietta and have a peek at her roots. (Bernard, also, had a standing invitation to visit Gulietta’s palace.) After that, she’d probably return to America. Unquestionably, Bernard would. But as for a life together, well, Bernard could overlook her Arab bedmate, but he couldn’t forget her inclinations toward do-good and group-think, and for her part, Leigh-Cheri had begun to suspect that in the last quarter of the twentieth century Cupid was too dazed, crazed, and generally pissed-off to stick around and finish a job. “There are three lost continents,” she lamented. “We are one: the lovers.”
100
FROM THE INVISIBLE BIOGENERATOR of the pyramid, they derived tremendous energy, which they used up in nonstop conversations and in resisting sexual desire. There was an unspoken agreement between them that since the future of their relationship was up for reappraisal, they would not bite off any what might prove to be junk-food sex. They swapped a kiss now and then and spied on each other when they went to their respective corners to pee, but otherwise behaved as if she’d been reared in Virgin Mary, Georgia, and his after-shave cologne was No Mi Molestar. Mostly they talked.

“Leigh-Cheri, you were on the brink of marrying that man. Didn’t you even know him well enough to anticipate his current display of bad manners?”
She thought it over. “Well-he did say something spooky once. He’d been drinking, and he was sort of bragging about how powerful he and his family were. He said that they had the United States over a barrel. He said if America went to war with anybody-Russia, for example-he and his people could determine the outcome. He said they could cut off America’s oil supply any time they felt like it and that it would be all over for our country. If the Arabs took a notion to withhold their oil, we couldn’t resist a foreign invasion. Do you think that’s possible?”
“Yeah, it probably is.”
“Doesn’t it upset you?”
“Hell, no. I’m not gonna worry about it. No more than I worry about any
aspect of politics and economics.”
“You’re sticking your head in the sand. If Russia conquered America, it’d be
terrible.”
“In many ways it would be. There’s nobody on earth half as boring as the
Communists, no matter what their nationality, and the Slavs were on the dark and dreary side to start with. Communism is the supreme example of how political idealism can transform human beings into androids. You can bet the bright lights would dim if those robots ever got their iron paws on our switch. But I don’t have to leave my house to have fun. I’d still find ways to rock and roll.”
“Selfish. Frivolous. Imma-”
“Wait a minute. Hold on. What I’m saying is simply that every totalitarian society, no matter how strict, has had its underground. In fact, two undergrounds. There’s the underground involved in political resistance and the underground involved in preserving beauty and fun-which is to say, preserving the human spirit. Let me tell you a story. In the nineteen-forties in Nazi-occupied Paris, an artist named Marcel Carné made a movie. He filmed it on location on the Street of Thieves, the old Parisian theater street where at one time there was everything from Shakespearean companies to flea circuses, from grand opera to girlie shows. Carné’s film was a period piece and required hundreds of extras in nineteenth-century costume. It required horses and carriages and jugglers and acrobats. The movie turned out to be over three hours long. And Carné made it right under the Nazis’ noses. The film is a three-hour affirmation of life and an examination of the strange and sometimes devastating magnetism of love. Romantic? Oh, babe, it’s romantic enough to make a travel poster sigh and a sonnet blush. But completely uncompromising. It’s a celebration of the human

spirit in all of its goofy, gentle, and grotesque guises. And he made it in the very midst of Nazi occupation, filmed this beauty inside the belly of the beast. He called it Les Enfants du Paradis-Children of Paradise-and forty years later it’s still moving audiences around the world. Now, I don’t want to take anything away from the French resistance. Its brave raids and acts of sabotage undermined the Germans and helped bring about their downfall. But in many ways Marcel Carné’s movie, his Children of Paradise, was more important than the armed resistance. The resisters might have saved the skin of Paris, Carné kept alive its soul.”
Leigh-Cheri squeezed Bernard’s hand until the freckles turned color. The freckles gathered up their belongings and made for the fingertips. The freckles were ready to abandon ship. “You must take me to see that movie some day. Will you promise?”
“I promise, Leigh-Cheri. And we will find a way to see it, no matter what the politicians and the generals do. Communist totalitarianism won’t stop us and neither will capitalist inflation. If tickets cost a thousand dollars each, we’ll pay without batting an eye. And if we can’t afford to pay, we’ll sneak in. Afterwards, we’ll have Hostess Twinkies and a jug of wine. And if Twinkies and wine are too expensive, we’ll grow grain and grapes and make our own. And if they confiscate our little vineyard and our Twinkie patch, why we’ll steal what we need from those who have excess. Ah, Leigh-Cheri, life is too short for us to be deprived of any one of its joys by the sad, sick androids who control laws and economics. And we won’t be deprived. Not even in totalitarianism. Not even in a pyramid.”
With that, he popped the last remaining bottle of champagne and swigged an amount four times the size of his daily allotment. He handed it to Leigh-Cheri, and she did the same.
“Yum,” he said.
She apparently concurred.
101
FOR THE NEXT TWO DAYS Bernard drank no champagne and Leigh-
Cheri sipped only enough to wet her lips. Even so, there was so little left....
Of the cake, the cake whose snowy tiers had once seemed as inexhaustible as
a natural resource, only crumbs remained. Crumbs and the broken sugar wing of a confectionary cherub.
What’s more, the oil had been used up in all but one of the lamps. They restricted themselves to an hour or two of lamplight daily and spent most of the time in darkness.
A month had passed-though they had no way of reckoning-and it was

starting to tell on them. They seldom mentioned the possibility of death, yet it was in their eyes when the lamp flickered, it was in the way they stared at the dwindling food and drink.
They couldn’t imagine why no one had come for them. The thick granite walls prevented them from hearing the workmen who swarmed over the pyramid with spray guns. A’ben Fizel was having it painted black. Nobody would ever be allowed inside the pyramid again, Fizel decreed. It was permanently closed, a memorial to his beloved.
Once, Leigh-Cheri went so far as to say, “If they should find us in here many, many years from now, we’ll look the same as we do now. Thanks to pyramid power, our corpses will be perfectly preserved.”
“Good,” said Bernard. “Beauty like mine deserves to last. I want the children of tomorrow to be able to gaze upon my teeth.”
“It’s ironic, isn’t it, how this starts and ends with pyramids? I mean, we wouldn’t be trapped inside this thing if it weren’t for the Camel pack. And, of course, your crazy story about the Red Beards from Argon. I guess it goes back further than Camels. It goes back to our red hair.”
“Which will be perfectly preserved, thank God.”
“Yeah, sure. But it is ironic. I wanted to solve the mystery of the pyramids, and here I am locked up inside one, maybe going to die in one, and I’m as far from the answer as ever.”
“You mean that’s all you wanted? To learn the meaning of pyramids?”
“What are you implying, all I wanted? That’s a lot. I suppose you know the meaning of the pyramids.”
“I do.”
She halfway believed him. “Then will you please enlighten me? How come you found the meaning when so many others have failed?”
“Simple. It’s because others-like you yourself-have looked at pyramids wrong.”
“Looked at them wrong?”
“Yep. You’ve looked at a pyramid as if it were a finished product, the whole item, the thing itself. But a pyramid is just part of the thing, and the bottom part at that. Pyramids are pedestals, babe. A pyramid is merely a base for something else to stand on.”
“Are you serious?”
“I am.”
“Well, Jesus, Bernard. What stood on the pyramids?”
“Souls. Souls like you and me. And we have to stand on them now. The
pyramid is the bottom, and the top is us. The top is all of us. All of us who’re

crazy enough and brave enough and in love enough. The pyramids were built as pedestals that the souls of the truly alive and truly in love could stand upon and bark at the moon. And I believe that our souls, yours and mine, will stand together atop the pyramids forever.”
In the darkness she found him and hugged him until once again the captain of his freckles sounded the alarm to man the lifeboats. (Freckle the lifeboats?) He hugged her back. Their lips touched, surprising them both with the volume of juice produced. Soon, faces were not spacious enough to contain their kisses, and their mouths ranged freely over one another’s soiled bodies. He slipped inside of her with an audible slish, and, weakened as they were, they made love slowly and sweetly for more than an hour.
Afterward, he fell asleep on the stones beneath the tablecloth. It was when he had begun to softly snore that she slipped away and prepared the dynamite.
102
"BIRDS OF A FEATHER FLOCK TOGETHER," thought the Princess. “Now I’m the bomber.” She had braided the fuses-not an easy feat in the darkness-and leaned the dynamite sticks against the door. “I’m the Woodpecker."
She struck one of the last of his wooden matches and held it to the tip of the braid. When it began to sputter, she threw down the matchbox and felt her way quickly back to Bernard. She had turned the reception table, the table that had supported the cake and champagne, onto its side. It formed a flimsy barricade alongside Bernard’s sleeping form. She stepped over the table and lowered herself down on top of him. He was sleeping on his back. With all of her might, she pressed her nude, goose-pimpled body against his own, shielding it, protecting it. Her face covered his face, her arms cradled his head.
Initially, he thought she had more sex on her mind, and he mumbled a happy protest. As the pressure she was exerting began to alarm him, he struggled to free his head. “Leigh-Cheri, I can’t breathe,” he said. His voice was muffled. She bore down harder.
“You’re better equipped for this world than I am,” she said. “I’m always trying to change the world. You know how to live in it.”
Now he was fully awake. He smelled, then heard the sputtering fuse. He realized what she’d done. He’d been planning the same thing. Only he’d chosen to give himself one more day, one more chance to make love with her. She’d beaten him to it! She was sacrificing herself to save him. The princess as hero. “I’ve found one way to make love stay,” she said.
He struggled to roll over, to exchange positions, but she’d braced her legs, and he couldn’t turn her.

Pumping adrenaline faster than any Fizel well pumped oil, he reached for every volt and ore of strength left in him and, muscles tearing, sinews stretching, teeth grinding sparks, began willing himself to his feet. He was halfway there, Leigh-Cheri still leeched on tight, when she reached between his legs and grabbed his balls. She squeezed them so ferociously that he nearly lost consciousness. Pain rushed in the front door, and strength slipped out the back. They toppled together. Galaxies and teddy bears swooshed by as they fell, frogs leaped from star to star, the moon danced a fandango, they saw Max and Dude, Tilli and Kathleen, A’ben and Ralph Nader, blazing blackberries, solid gold onions, and the musical mountain tips of Mu.
They landed on the Camel pack with a single, painful thud. “Yum,” she said, insistently, into his beard.
Then the bomb went off.
103
THE MOON CAN’T HELP IT. It’s only an object. The moon doesn’t mean
to set things sloshing-in every ocean’s basin, in every female’s uterus, in every poet’s jar of ink, in every madman’s drool.
“It’s only a paper moon/Sailing over a cardboard sea.” The moon can’t help it if the best toys are made of paper. And the best metaphors made of cheese.
They say that lost objects end up on the moon. Is a siren responsible for a sailor’s taste in song?
The moon can’t help it. It’s only a fat dumb object, the pumpkin of the sky. The moon’s a mess, to tell the truth. A burnt-out cinder the color of dishwater; a stale gray cookie covered with scars. Every loose rock in our solar system has taken a punch at it. It’s been stoned, scorched, golf-clubbed, and inflicted with boils. If lovers have chosen this brutalized derelict, this tortured dustball, this pitted and pimpled parcel of wasteland as the repository of their dreams, the moon can’t help it.
Solar enthusiasts are fond of pointing out that the moon merely reflects the light of the sun. Yes, the moon is a mirror. It can’t help it. The moon is the original mirror, the first to refuse to distort CHOICE. Objects can’t think. They employ other methods. But we human beings use objects to think with. And when it comes to the moon, you are free to think as you choose.
If the moon hung over Fort Blackberry like an omen, like a cheap literary device, it couldn’t help it. The moon just hung there. Bernard Mickey Wrangle and Princess Leigh-Cheri drove up in a cab.
104
BERNARD WAS THE FIRST to regain consciousness. He woke up in an Arab clinic that featured goatskin bedpans and snot-green walls. It took him an

hour to understand why the swarming flies didn’t buzz. He was tipped off when the police began interrogating him via note pad. He was deaf.
Naturally, they believed that he was the kidnapper. They asked him if his motives were political or sexual. He wrote on the pad, “Take a flying fuck at a rolling oil barrel. Take a flying fuck at the Koran.”
The police looked at one another and nodded. “Political and sexual,” they said.
He thought only of escape. First he had to find out what they’d done with Leigh-Cheri’s corpse. He intended to take her ashes to Hawaii. He’d build a sand castle in the shape of a pyramid on the beach near Lahaina. He’d sprinkle her ashes on top of the pyramid and watch as the waves came for them and carried them away to Mu.
His mind was as chained to that morbid scheme as his legs were chained to the bed. On the third day, they unlocked his leg irons. His mind remained chained.
“She say you innocent,” the police wrote.
Bernard bolted up. “You mean she’s alive!” he said. He couldn’t hear himself say it.
They nodded. They led him down the hall to her room.
Two-thirds of her hair was singed off. Her right cheek was as torn as the moon’s. But she was awake and smiling.
He pointed to his ears. She pointed to hers. She was deaf, too. She reached for the note pad.
“Hello, dragon bait,” she wrote.
105
THE CLINIC WOULDN’T release them. A’ben Fizel ordered them held. A’ben was rushing home from an American business trip. They both knew what his return would mean.
Gulietta arrived before A’ben. Her prime minister, a bearded giant with a gun belt, accompanied her. And twenty-five rebel commandos, as well. Queen Gulietta advised Ihaj Fizel to turn over the young couple. She threatened an international incident. The old sultan followed her logic. Many times he’d warned his son that redheads were nothing but trouble. “Get them out away from here at once,” he told Gulietta. “I’ll handle my boy. Shalom.”
They recuperated at Gulietta’s palace. Except for their eardrums, healing was swift.
At a desk in their room (Queen G. was no prude), Bernard wrote Leigh-Cheri a letter. Impatient, she read over his shoulder.
He was describing a dream. Or a hallucination. He wrote that when he and

Leigh-Cheri fell to the floor right before the blast, he experienced the sensation that they had fallen into the Camel pack.
“All the time that I was unconscious,” he wrote, “I was dreaming-I guess I was dreaming-that we had escaped through the package of Camels. That we went inside of it and caught the camel and rode it bareback to the oasis-”
She took the pad from him. “We had to ride fast,” she wrote, “because we were naked and the sun was hot. Redheads burn easily.”
Bernard recovered paper and pen. “Yes,” he wrote. “That’s right. Well, we made it to the oasis, where we rested by the water hole in the shade of the palms.”
Leigh-Cheri yanked the pad back. “There was a frog in the pool. And we wondered how a frog got out there in the middle of the desert.”
Bernard grabbed the pad. “How did you know that?”
It was her turn. “We ate fresh dates. You made a droll remark about dates being a laxative. Some Bedouins came through, and they gave us an old camel blanket. One blanket between us. We wrapped in it-”
“It was tan,” wrote Bernard. He was so excited that the pen shook.
“With a few stripes of blue.”
“How do you know this?”
“I had the same dream. It seemed more real than a dream. A hallucination?
A-”
“At dusk, we made love.”
“You started it by sucking my toes.”
“Your toes are cute. And then the dates took effect.”
The Princess laughed. “You wondered if there was a men’s room over at the
pyramid.”
“We decided to avoid pyramids. Except as pedestals. We slept by the pool.
How do you know this? How do we know it? Could we both have had the exact same dream?”
“Was it a dream, then?”
They were staring at one another in silent disbelief, trembling a little, when Gulietta entered. There would have been no point in her knocking first.
Gulietta brought a cable from Tilli. It was news about Max. The disappearance and resurrection of his daughter had been too much for the King. His valve had gone bingo. “I bet you zat you’re soon okay,” Tilli had told him when he slumped. “Two will get you five I am not,” answered Max. He’d won.
For the time being, Bernard and Leigh-Cheri forgot about the Camel pack- and whether at the instant of explosion it had sheltered them from death.
They’d have the last quarter of the twentieth century, and more, perhaps, to

bother their noodles with that one. 106
KING MAX WAS BURIED IN RENO. Far from blackberries. Bernard and Leigh-Cheri attended the funeral. Later, they put Tilli on a plane for Europe. Gulietta had named her manager of the national opera. “I gun to be a vorking girl,” said Tilli. “Oh-Oh, spaghetti-o."
Bernard and Leigh-Cheri flew to Seattle. Arriving at the Furstenberg- Barcalona house, they discovered that it had been engulfed by blackberry vines. Chuck, who still lived over the garage, had hacked a tunnel to the front door. Chuck tunneled through the brambles in order to watch game shows on Max’s old Magnavox. The taxi driver offered to take Bernard and Leigh-Cheri to a hotel. They refused. They entered the tunnel by moonlight.
They set up their lives in the house. In the thorns and berries. They seldom went out except to go shopping. They enjoyed supermarkets. Pharmacies. Vegetable stands. Tobacco shops. Val-u-Marts. Meat-o-ramas. Family Shoe Centers. Buddy Squirrel’s Nuts Candies. Appliance stores.
Wherever they looked, something momentous was happening.
They made love at all hours and in every corner of the house. Sometimes Chuck had to step over them to get to the TV.
But having acquired a taste for solitude, each of them spent days separate and alone, Leigh-Cheri in the attic, Bernard in the pantry. Funny how we think of romance as always involving two, when the romance of solitude can be ever so much more delicious and intense. Alone, the world offers itself freely to us. To be unmasked, it has no choice.
Naturally, it rained a lot. The famous Seattle rain. If love was going to stay, it better be prepared to get its feet wet.
Leigh-Cheri took up easel painting. Still lifes. She wasn’t bad. Bernard carried around wooden matches. “Everybody needs a hobby,” he explained. Once, to the east, above the mountains, a strange glow science-fictioned
across the sky. There were flashing lights of every color but one. When Bernard and Leigh-Cheri were certain that the thing had passed, they told each other that they were proud to be redheads. That they would be ready when the showdown came.
With her share of Max’s winnings, Leigh-Cheri purchased powerful hearing aids. Hers was pink, Bernard’s was black. Each hearing aid was about the size of a Camel pack. They were made from plastic and tended to squeak. They were adorable.
Even with aids, their hearing was only partially restored. Still, they were convinced that they could hear the chipmunk at the center of the earth. They

could tell that the chipmunk was running smoothly now. Its wheel spun easy and free.
EPILOGUE
WELL, we made it through the night. I have to hand it to the Remington SL3, it hung in there in spite of what must have been, for a typewriter of its class, exceedingly primitive conditions.
I’ll never write another novel on an electric typewriter. I’d rather use a sharp stick and a little pile of dog shit. But the Remington, although too pseudosophisticated for my taste, is an object, after all, and wasn’t the possibility of a breakthrough in relations between animate and inanimate objects one of the subjects of this book?
Yes, this is the book that revealed the purpose of the moon. And while it may not have disclosed exactly what happened to the golden ball, it stated plainly why the question needed to be raised.
Objecthood was by no means our only major theme. There was, for example, the matter of the evolution of the individual, how evolving is not accomplished for a person by nature or society but is the central dimension of a personal drama to which nature and society are but spectators. Wasn’t it made clear that civilization is not an end in itself but a theater or gymnasium in which the evolving individual finds facilities for practice? And when it comes to themes, how about the-but wait a minute. Hold on. I’ve been trapped. This is the very kind of analytical, after-the-fact goose gunk the Remington SL3 cut its teeth on. No wonder it’s still yammering away, despite a lack of fuel, despite the red enamel house paint that’s run down into its guts. Enough already. I’m going to pull its 

This is the room of the wolfmother wallpaper. The toadstool motel you once thought a mere folk tale, a corny, obsolete, rural invention.
This is the room where your wisest ancestor was born, be you Christian, Arab, or Jew. The linoleum underfoot is sacred linoleum. Please remove your shoes. Quite recently, the linoleum here was restored to its original luster with the aid of a wax made from hornet fat. It scuffs easily. So never mind if there are holes in your socks.
This is the room where your music was invented. Notice the cracked drumhead spiked to the wall, spiked to the wolfmother wallpaper above the corner sink where the wayward wife washed out her silk underpants, inspecting them in the blue seepage from the No Vacancy neon that flickered suspiciously out in the thin lizard dawn.
What room is this? This is the room where the antler carved the pumpkin. This is the room where the gutter pipes drank the moonlight. This is the room where moss gradually silenced the treasure, rubies being the last to go. Transmissions from insect antennae were monitored in this room. It's amazing how often their broadcasts referred to the stars.
A clue: this is the room where the Painted Stick was buried, where the Conch Shell lay wrapped in its adoring papyrus. Lovers, like serpents, shed their old skin in this clay room. Now do you remember the wallpaper? The language of the wallpaper? The wolfmother's blood roses that vibrated there?
Enough of this wild fox barking. You pulled up in the forest Cadillac, the vehicle you claimed you'd forgotten how to drive. You parked between the swimming pool and the row of blackened skulls. Of course, you know what room this is.
This is the room where Jezebel frescoed her eyelids with history's tragic glitter, where Delilah practiced for her beautician's license, the room in which Salome dropped the seventh veil while dancing the dance of ultimate cognition, skinny legs and all.
the first veil
~
It was a bright, defrosted, pussy-willow day at the onset of spring, and the newlyweds were driving cross-country in a large roast turkey.
The turkey lay upon its back, as roast turkeys will; submissive, agreeable, volunteering its breast to the carving blade, its roly-poly legs cocked in a stiff but jaunty position, as if it might summon the gumption to spring forward onto its feet, but, of course, it had no feet, which made the suggestion seem both empty and ridiculous, and only added to the turkey's aura of goofy vulnerability.
Despite its feetlessness, however, its pathetic podalic privation, this roast turkey—or jumbo facsimile thereof—was moving down the highway at sixty- five miles an hour, traveling faster, farther on its back than many aspiring actresses.
The turkey, gleaming in the callow March sunlight, had been a wedding present from the groom to the bride, although the title remained in the groom's name and he was never, in fact, to relinquish ownership. Actually, it was the fashioning of the turkey, the phenomenon of its existence, that was his gift to the bride. More important, it was the manifestation of the turkey, the squealy, swoony surprise of the creation of the turkey, that had precipitated the marriage: the groom, Boomer Petway, had used the turkey to trick the bride, Ellen Cherry Charles, into marrying him. At least, that was what Ellen Cherry was thinking at that moment, less than a week after the wedding, thinking, as she watched the turkey suck the thawing countryside into its windshield and blow it out its rearview mirror, that she'd been tricked. Less than a week after the wedding, that probably was not an excellent indicator of impending decades of marital bliss.
Some marriages are made in heaven, Ellen Cherry thought. Mine was made in Hong Kong. By the same people who make those little rubber pork chops they sell in the pet department at K mart.

~
Mockingbirds are the true artists of the bird kingdom. Which is to say, although they're born with a song of their own, an innate riff that happens to be one of the most versatile of all ornithological expressions, mockingbirds aren't content to merely play the hand that is dealt them. Like all artists, they are out to rearrange reality. Innovative, willful, daring, not bound by the rules to which others may blindly adhere, the mockingbird collects snatches of birdsong from this tree and that field, appropriates them, places them in new and unexpected contexts, recreates the world from the world. For example, a mockingbird in South Carolina was heard to blend the songs of thirty-two different kinds of birds into a ten-minute performance, a virtuoso display that served no practical purpose, falling, therefore, into the realm of pure art.
And so it was that in the dogwood branches and lilac bushes on the grounds of the Third Baptist Church of Colonial Pines, mockingbirds were producing art, were "making a joyful noise unto the Lord," while inside the building, a Georgian rectangle of powdery brick and prissy white trim, several hundred freshly scrubbed, well-fed human beings concerned themselves not with creation but destruction. Ultimate destruction.
In east-central Virginia, where Colonial Pines was located, spring was quicker on its feet than it was out in the Far West, through which Boomer and Ellen Cherry's roast turkey was transporting them ever eastward. Pussy willows had already come and gone in Virginia, and sickly faced dogwood blossoms, like constipated elves, strained to take their places. From underground silos, jonquil bulbs fired round after round of butter-tipped stalks, all sorts of buds were swelling and popping, birds (not just mockingbirds) strung ropes of birdsong from treetop to fence post, bees and other insects were waking to the unfamiliar alarm of their own faint buzz; all around, the warming natural world was in the process of rebirth and renewal, almost as if to deliberately cast some doubt upon the accuracy of the sermon being concluded at that moment in the church.
"God gave us this sign," said the preacher from his oak veneer podium. "The Lord gave us a sign! A sign! It was a warning, if you will. A word to the wise. He gave his children a big easy-to-read sign, words in tall black letters, maybe golden letters—maybe it was a neon sign. In any case, there's no mistakin' its message. The Lord shoved this sign before the countenance of his

beloved disciple, John, and John, being a righteous man, John bein' a wise man, John didn't blink or scratch his head or ask for details, Saint John didn't call up a lawyer on the phone and ask for a legal interpretation, no, John read this sign and copied it down and passed it on to mankind. To you and I."
The preacher's voice was reminiscent of a saxophone. Not the cool, laconic sax of Lester Young, but the full, lush, volatile sound of, say, Charlie Barnet. There was a marvelous, dark lyricism in his voice, the kind of defiance that is rooted in deep loneliness. His pockmarked face was lean and hungry looking, a beat face poisoned by boils and the runoff from rotting teeth. Yet the voice that rolled out from that face, from underneath the boyish shock of damp, black hair, the voice was fecund and round and gloomily romantic. Females in the congregation, especially, were touched by the preacher's voice, never stopping to consider that it might have been hot pus that fueled its grand combustion.
"What the Almighty Father told John was this: that when the Jews return to their homeland—yea! when the Jew is once again at home in the land of Is-ra-el —the end of the world is at hand!"
The preacher paused. He gazed at the congregation with his starving eyes. Verlin Charles was later to say, "Sometimes when he looks down at us like that, I feel like he wants to eat the flower right outen my buttonhole." "Uh-huh," his wife, Patsy, replied. "Makes me feel like he wants to chew the elastic outta my underpants." Verlin Charles did not appreciate Patsy Charles's interpretation of the preacher's voracious stare, and he told her so.
Off to the left of the altar, a radio engineer raised three fingers. The Reverend Buddy Winkler caught the gesture out of the comer of his eye, immediately thereupon aborting the penetrating scrutiny of his flock and returning to the microphone.
"When the Jew has returned to his homeland, the end of the world is at hand! That is the sign God gave unto us. Why? I want to ask you somethin'. Do you think God just threw out that crumb of information offhand like it was gossip, like it was an interestin' item outen the Reader's Digest! Or did God have a purpose in the showing of this sign to John? Did God have a reason in ordering John to write down this prophecy in his Book of Revelation? Are we intended to act somehow upon this message?"
The engineer raised two fingers. Buddy Winkler nodded and quickened the tempo. Blowing Charlie Parker style, blowing a swift freight of harmonic rhetoric, blowing his sax-voice at about fifty-eight bars per minute, blowing alto now—his usual tenor abandoned at the gates of syncopation—the preacher

swung into a dazzling diatribe against Semite and anti-Semite alike: instructed his brethren (with a sputter of grace notes) to turn their attention to Jerusalem, the city of their eternal fate; bade them prepare themselves for physical entry into Jerusalem, where they that were righteous among them were to accept their promised rewards; reminded them that on the following Sunday he would describe to them what conditions they might expect to encounter in the New Jerusalem; and further reminded them that next week's sermon, as each of the sermons in this series concerning the Rapidly Approaching End, would be broadcast over the Southern Baptist Voice of the Sparrow Network, of which WCPV was the local affiliate. He then stitched on a reedy coda of prayer, timing an "amen" to perfectly coincide with the wag of the engineer's single digit.
Sequins of spittle were scattered along his smile as he accepted compliments at the door.
"Powerful sermon, Reverend Winkler."
"God bless you, Roy."
"Reverend Winkler, you are just eloquence itself. You move me, you stir
me up inside, you—"
"It's the Lord that speaks through me, Miz Packett." He squeezed her hand.
"The Lord does the movin'."
"Right nice, Bud. Frogs are out."
"Don't know if I'll have time for any jiggin' this spring, Verlin."
"You got other frogs to jig, right, Bud?"
His boils waxed a deeper red. "Patsy now."
"As in 'other fish to fry.'"
"Patsy." He said her name laboriously, as if he were coaxing a lone low
note from his saxophone bell. It was both censure and plea. Patsy grinned and left him to his flock.
Verlin and Patsy Charles walked to their Buick Regal in the parking lot. "You hadn't ought to mess with him here, Patsy. In God's house ..."
"He was out on the steps."
"... on the Sabbath."
"Bud's Bud, on Sunday or the Fourth of July."
"How about on Judgment Day?"
"We'll see soon enough, I reckon," said Patsy, and Verlin, safely behind the
lilac hedge, smiled.
"You know," Verlin said, as he stopped to admire a new Ford pickup that he
knew to belong to an acquaintance, "the end of the world is not gonna be coming

right away. You know why? Because the fact is, there're more Jews in New York City than in the entire country of Is-ra-el." He tried to pronounce it the way his cousin Buddy did, but Verlin's voice was more kazoo than saxophone.
"So, you wanna deport 'em?"
"No skin off my pecker if New York's more Jewish than Jerusalem. I'm not ready for Armageddon. I got bills to pay."
"You got a daughter fixin' to live in New York City."
A tremendous frown wadded up Verlin's face. It was a pink face, occupied neither on its west bank nor its east by a single whisker. Verlin was one of those men who seemed to shave internally. His build was rangy, as was his kin's, the preacher's, but his face was round, smooth, satiated (which is not quite the same as "content"), and it smelled perpetually of mildewed washrag, no matter what quantities of Old Spice aftershave were tossed at it. "You would have to remind me," he said.
"Millions of people live in New York. It must not be that bad."
"Perverts. Puerto Ricans. Muggers. Terrorists. Whatta ya call 'em: bag ladies."
"Terrorists in New York? Honey, New York is located in the U.S.A., for your information."
"They will have 'em if they don't already. Jews attract terrorism like shit attracts flies. Always have."
"I swear, you sound like Bud. The Jews didn't walk off some boat last Tuesday. New York's been full of Jews since I don't know how long. And they've been returned to Israel since back in the nineteen-forties sometime. I don't know why you two are all of a sudden so worked up about Jews."
"Oh, must be the Middle East on the news." He sighed. "Seems like any more that's all there is."
"Besides, Boomer'll take care of Ellen Cherry. You said so yourself."
"Once upon a time I said it. Not anymore. That damn contraption he drove out to pick her up in! I think she's finally made him as kooky as she is." Verlin spat. "Artists!"
As the couple walked up to their Buick, two mockingbirds flew away from its grill, one of them tweeting in a little-known dialect of the goldfinch, the other mixing a catbird cry with a raspy chord borrowed from a woodpecker. For centuries, mockingbirds had hunted live insects and foraged for seeds, but when motorcars began to appear in numbers on southern roads, they learned that they could dine more easily by simply picking dead bugs off the radiators of parked

autos. Mockingbirds. Turning modern technology to their idiosyncratic advantage. Inventing new tricks to subsidize their expression. Artists!
~
Before static finally fried it to a crisp, a portion of the Reverend Buddy Winkler's Sunday sermon had crackled out of the roast turkey's radio. "Uncle Buddy," sneered Ellen Cherry. Although he was, in fact, what is called by southerners a mere "shirttail relation," she had called him "uncle" since she was a tot. "Ol' Uncle Buddy's gone nationwide."
Boomer was perfectly aware of that. In recent years he had been closer to her father's family than she. Boomer didn't appear to notice when she switched the Motorola to a news broadcast. ("In the Arab quarter of Jerusalem today, Israeli soldiers fired into a group of. . .") Boomer appeared to be counting cows. The cows that were stuck like gnats to the fly strip of the horizon. When he counted up to a certain number, he smiled. Thought Ellen Cherry, I will probably never really know how many little faraway cows it takes to make my husband smile.
Strange, but in country such as this—dry, bare, and wide; country given to forage crops, flat rocks, and sidewinders—Buddy Winkler's apocalyptic rant acquired a certain credibility. West of the Cascade Range, back around Seattle, where they had begun their journey, trees were so thick, so robust and tall, that they oozed green gas, sported mossy mustaches, and yelled "Timber, yourself!" at lumberjacks. Those chill forests, quietly throbbing with ancient vitality, seemed to refute the firmest eschatological convictions. Here, however, trees were wizened, drab, and thinly distributed. The road, clear and straight, uncoiled ahead of the turkey, recoiled behind, locking its passengers in a drowsy, lifeless rhythm from which the granulated yellow-brown layer cake to either side afforded scant relief. Distant cow-specks, raisins in the receding frosting, outnumbered pussy willows; and, indeed, the imprint of the hoof was on everything.
In country such as this, Ellen Cherry always rather expected the golden clock to go off. The clock with the alarm that sounded like firestorms and flügelhorns. Followed by the voice of Orson Welles reading from The Book of the Dead. "It'd be just like the world to end," she said, "when we're out here in the boondocks miles from a telephone."

Boomer didn't respond. His attention was fixed on an approaching cattle truck. As it drew nearer, the truck slowed and began to weave. It nearly sideswiped them in passing. The driver was hanging his head out the window in disbelief. Boomer swerved and honked the horn.
"Ignorant cowboy," muttered Boomer. "Nearly took a drumstick off."
~
Colonial Pines was a suburb without an urb. At a distance of twenty-two miles, it was too far from Richmond to truly function as an appendage thereof, yet it lacked the autonomy of a separate city. It boasted no industry to speak of, and while excellent tomatoes were grown in abundance in its immediate vicinity, it certainly couldn't be characterized as a farming community. Oddly enough, it had no downtown. What passed for a business district in Colonial Pines was a four-lane highway that, despite the turnpike that nowadays allowed traffic to skirt the place, still carried thousands of Yankee tourists to Florida and back. As it passed through Colonial Pines, that highway, three miles of it, was lined cheek to jowl with motels, service stations, and restaurants—although restaurant might be too dignified a word for the barbecue pits, ice cream stands, truck stops, and so-called "family" inns (whose blank, almost totalitarian cuisine could be trusted never to excite or confuse a repressed taste bud with flavors novel or bold). Presumably, inhabitants of this quasi-town earned their income from the Strip, as it was known (comparing it to the Las Vegas Strip would be akin to comparing Marie Osmond to Mae West), though we may also presume that they benefited from the proceeds of their traffic court: the reputation of the Colonial Pines speed trap stretched from Boston to Miami.
Exactly how an almost exclusively Caucasian lower-middle-class residential community of nineteen thousand supported itself, how it paid for its green shutters, power mowers, and ubiquitous American flags, is a question fit to occupy a demographer for a useless month or so, but it is not, thankfully, a concern of ours. Suffice for us to establish that Ellen Cherry Charles was born and reared in Colonial Pines, Virginia, that she loathed it from the cradle on, plotting even as a little girl to flee the vapors of unrelieved boredom that she believed were stifling her there. Eventually, and with some difficulty, she did escape. The tentacles of home place are as tenacious as they are stealthy, however, and the fact that she had yet to cut completely free of their coils was

attested to by the weekly telephone calls she aimed at the Charles household. She made one on that March day.
"Hi."
"Honey!" exclaimed Patsy. "Good to hear your voice! Listen, I oughtta go pull my robe on 'fore we commence. You caught me nekkid as a jaybird."
" 'Nekkid' or 'naked,' mama?"
"What's the blessed difference? Are you making Yankee fun of the way I talk? The way you used to talk?"
"No, no, mama, let me tell you. Naked means you just don't have any clothes on. Nekkid means you don't have any clothes on and you're fixing to get into trouble."
Patsy giggled. "Lord, chile, I've already done that." She lowered her voice to a notch above a whisper. "The fact is, your daddy just had his way with me, as is his custom on a Sunday afternoon. I understand that most of these once-a- weekers do it on Saturday night, but your daddy's gotta be different in some category, I reckon. I swear, I think it's Buddy's sermons get him heated up, just like they do half the good Baptist ladies in this town. Or maybe it's the football, I don't know. He does watch the football first." Patsy stopped and cleared the giggle out of her voice. "Anyways, I shouldn't be gabbing to you about it. Except you are an ol' married woman now."
"Boomer's fine, mama."
"Good. Where y'all callin' from?"
"Some rodeo town. Close to Idaho, I think. A person would believe they'd
have nice hamburgers in towns like this, cows practically grazing on Main Street, but I swear the patties have more sawdust in them than they do in Colonial Pines. Boomer's had two, though, and working on a third."
"You watch that boy. Don't let them pretty muscles go to fat."
At that, Ellen Cherry glanced over her shoulder toward the snackbar blacktop where she had last seen her muscular groom. A half-dozen or more men had gathered to gawk at the great turkey, and Boomer was standing in their midst.
"They still refer to you gentlemen as cowboys?" Boomer asked. He gnawed at a ragged rind of burger bun the way a howling wolf sometimes seems to gnaw at a gibbous moon.
Apparently, the teenager at whom he'd directed his inquiry was too shy to respond. The young fellow seized the opportunity to examine his boots. Likely need new soles by summer.

One of the older men, raising his neck, gooselike, up out of his denim, took it upon himself to extend the courtesy of a reply. "How might you think they'd be referring to us?" His voice was slow and deliberate, like a mouse-fattened adder crawling over a rock pile.
"Oh, I thought that this day and age you maybe would be known as bovine custodial officers." Boomer chuckled. He snapped at the last of the mustard-lit crust. "I did read somewheres," he said through a mouthful, "that the most accurate job description of your ol' wild west cowboy would be 'boorish Victorian agricultural worker.' Don't reckon that's a handle that'd stick."
There was a general shuffling of boots.
"Uh-oh," said Ellen Cherry.
"Honey, let me slip a robe on," said Patsy.
"Mama, I think we have to go. Right now. Love you. Bye."
Perhaps admiration of the cowboy as the quintessential American hero is,
indeed, not as universal as it was once. Traveling among the "bovine custodial officers" of Wyoming, Can o' Beans was to remark that a comparison between the American cowpoke and, say, the Japanese samurai, left the cowboy looking rather shoddy. "Before a samurai went into battle," Can o' Beans was to say, "he would burn incense in his helmet so that if his enemy took his head, he would find it pleasant to the nose. Cowboys, on the other hand, hardly ever bathed or changed their crusty clothing. If a samurai's enemy lost his sword, the samurai gave him his extra one so that the fight might continue in a manner honorable and fair. The cowboy's specialty was to shoot enemies in the back from behind a bush. Do you begin to see the difference?" Spoon and Dirty Sock would wonder how Can o' Beans knew so much about samurai. "Oh, I sat on the shelf next to a box of imported rice crackers for over a month," Can o' Beans would explain. "One can learn a lot conversing with foreigners."
Ah, but we are getting ahead of our story. The immediate news is that Boomer and Ellen Cherry were obliged to depart the rodeo town in a bit of a rush. As a matter of fact, a mob, made mobile by a fleet of Japanese pickup trucks, chased the turkey across the state line and some twenty miles deep into Idaho.
~
After the phone went dead in her hand, Ellen Cherry's mother, moderately

puzzled and freshly laid, wriggled into a robe, poured a cup of coffee, and went out on the sunporch to have a good think. She wished to consider, once again, the possibility that her daughter might have erred in marrying Boomer Petway and that Verlin and his cousin, Buddy Winkler, might have meddled insidiously in Ellen Cherry's life, not just where Boomer was concerned but generally.
She had had her own secret plans for Ellen Cherry, and it vexed her that Verlin might yet succeed in thwarting them.
If she makes it in New York as an artist, it's due to me, Patsy thought. She parted her robe slightly so that the late afternoon sunlight might warm her between her legs, where she was leaking a rivulet of the manly fluid in which she sometimes suspected her own artistic life had drowned.
As a young woman, Patsy had been a cheerleader who yearned to become a dancer. Why, at fifteen she was Grapefruit Princess of Okaloosa County! At seventeen, she met and married Verlin Charles, a navy pilot flying out of Pensacola. Discharged, Verlin moved her to Virginia, where he had resumed his career as a civil engineer. For the rest of her life, when Verlin was at work, Patsy would dance at home alone in cute white boots.
Ellen Cherry liked to watch her dance, but, to be honest, it wasn't Patsy's fancy-stepping that had channeled Ellen Cherry toward art. Rather, it was vertigo. And Colonial Pines.
Twice each year, the family would drive down to Florida to visit Patsy's folks. Inevitably, Ellen Cherry got carsick. To keep from vomiting, she had to lie on her back in the rear of the station wagon and look up. As a result, she began to see the world from a different perspective.
Telephone poles went by like loops. She would register the light from signboards first, then the tops of the signs, then their blurry message: the melting Marlboro man, the expanding slice of pie. Gradually, she experimented. Played what she called her "eye game." By squinting, and controlling the squint, she could achieve a figure-ground reversal. Figure-ground, ground-figure, back and forth. She could make herself color-blind. For miles, if she wished, the landscape would be nothing but red.
"How's Daddy's girl?" Verlin would ask from the driver's seat. "Need to pee-pee?" Often, Daddy's girl failed to reply. Daddy's girl was busy, sliding her focus to muffle or distort the normal associative effects of object and space, stripping them of common meaning or symbolic function, forcing them to settle in the highly mysterious region that lies between the cornea and the brain—and fooling with them there. The parallel lines of electrical wires, under her dynamic

gaze, would tend to overlap, so that they would break their continuity and magnify the open areas between them. This was especially interesting when a flock of blackbirds could be stirred into the optic mixture. Or, she would be looking at the field of vision itself, refusing to favor a central form, such as a water tower, but concentrating instead on the zone surrounding the tower, finding pattern and substance in areas our eyes tend to regard as secondary, vacant, vague. And all the while viewing everything upside down, sideways, and nauseated. Is it surprising, then, that she would be a trifle contemptuous of Boomer Petway's practice of tallying cows?
From kindergarten through high school, Ellen Cherry could draw better than anyone in her class. With all respect to Patsy's boasts, it was a talent inherited from her father, the engineer being a whiz at site sketches and schematic renderings. (What she inherited from her mom, aside from a certain feisty dreaminess, was an animated rump, perfectly round breasts that, Grapefruit Princess or no Grapefruit Princess, were closer to the tangerine end of the citrus scale; a pert nose, a pouty mouth, wide blue eyes, and a tangle of caramel-colored curls that no matter how it was styled, always looked as if it had starred in the first reel of The Wizard of Oz- It was hair that did its own stunts.) Every school has its unofficial "school artist," does it not, and, there, Ellen Cherry was it. Over the years, as the optic ore she mined on her trips to Florida was refined, her art projects became increasingly adventurous and complex. She started to lose her local following. Kids made cruel comments. She didn't care. She had decided to be a painter.
There was less art in Colonial Pines than there was porn in a Quaker's parlor. As is sometimes the case, the very absence of cultural stimulation was culturally stimulating. For Ellen Cherry, art was a signpost pointing away from Colonial Pines. It would magic-carpet her out of that community where the single movie theater was a ratty drive-in whose existence was perpetuated solely because of its convenience as a surrogate lovers' lane.
During her senior year, suffering from a chronic case of what Patsy, as a result of prolonged personal experience, termed "mosquito britches," Ellen Cherry attended that drive-in's cinematic exhibitions Friday night after Friday night in the company of Boomer Petway. When she went off to art college the following autumn, she would never see ol' Boomer again, she was convinced, and that was fine with her. Alas, on her very first night in the freshmen girls' dorm, there was a commotion at her window toward two in the morning—and in climbed Boomer, a can of Pabst in his fist and a rose in his teeth, having sped to

Richmond aboard his brother's Harley motorcycle and climbed three stories up a treacherous ivy-covered wall. Boomer, you see, was thunderously, dizzily, and— this should be said in his favor—sincerely in love.
"You can't do this," blubbered Boomer, as Ellen Cherry attempted to push him back through the window. "You gotta come home. Be with me. After what we been through! We—we signed into that motel as man and wife! You put— you put your mouth on me."
"Shoulda checked the fine print, hon," whispered Ellen Cherry, trying to assist him back onto the ivy vines as quietly as possible. "That blow job did not come with a lifetime warranty."
~
Ultimately, the roast turkey must be regarded as a monument to Boomer's love.
Look at it now, plump and glossy, floating across Idaho as if it were a mammoth, mutated seed pod. Hear how it backfires as it passes the silver mines, perhaps in tribute to the origin of the knives and forks of splendid sterling that a roast turkey and a roast turkey alone possesses the charisma to draw forth into festivity from dark cupboards.
See how it glides through the potato fields, familiarly at home among potatoes but with an air of expectation, as if waiting for the flood of gravy.
The roast turkey carries with it, in its chubby hold, a sizable portion of our primitive and pagan luggage.
Primitive and pagan? Us? We of the laser, we of the microchip, we of Union Theological Seminary and Time magazine? Of course. At least twice a year, do not millions upon millions of us cybernetic Christians and fax machine Jews participate in a ritual, a highly stylized ceremony that takes place around a large dead bird?
And is not this animal sacrificed, as in days of yore, to catch the attention of a divine spirit, to show gratitude for blessings bestowed, and to petition for blessings coveted?
The turkey, slain, slowly cooked over our gas or electric fires, is the central figure at our holy feast. It is the totem animal that brings our tribe together.
And because it is an awkward, intractable creature, the serving of it establishes and reinforces the tribal hierarchy. There are but two legs, two wings,

a certain amount of white meat, a given quantity of dark. Who gets which piece; who, in fact, slices the bird and distributes its limbs and organs, underscores quite emphatically the rank of each member in the gathering.
Consider that the legs of this bird are called "drumsticks," after the ritual objects employed to extract the music from the most aboriginal and sacred of instruments. Our ancestors kept their drums in public, but the sticks, being more actively magical, usually were stored in places known only to the shaman, the medicine man, the high priest, or the Wise Old Woman. The wing of the fowl gives symbolic flight to the soul, but with the drumstick is evoked the beat of the pulse of the heart of the universe.
Few of us nowadays participate in the actual hunting and killing of the turkey, but almost all of us watch, frequently with deep emotion, the reenactment of those events. We watch it on TV sets immediately before the communal meal. For what are footballs if not metaphorical turkeys, flying up and down a meadow? And what is a touchdown if not a kill, achieved by one or the other of two opposing tribes? To our applause, great young hunters from Alabama or Notre Dame slay the bird. Then, the Wise Old Woman, in the guise of Grandma, calls us to table, where we, pretending to be no longer primitive, systematically rip the bird asunder.
Was Boomer Petway aware of totemic implications when, to impress his beloved, he fabricated an outsize Thanksgiving centerpiece? No, not consciously. If and when the last veil dropped, he might comprehend what he had wrought. For the present, however, he was as ignorant as Can o' Beans, Spoon, and Dirty Sock were, before Painted Stick and Conch Shell drew their attention to similar affairs.
Nevertheless, it was Boomer who piloted the gobble-stilled butter-ball across Idaho, who negotiated it through the natural carving knives of the Sawtooth Mountains, who once or twice parked it in wilderness rest stops, causing adjacent flora to assume the appearance of parsley.
~
Randolph "Boomer" Petway was a welder by trade. He was seven years older than Ellen Cherry Charles. He was husky, dark, and, in a broad-faced, silly-grinned, thuggish sort of way, handsome. He drank a lot, guffawed a lot, and walked with a moderate limp, a piece of equipment having crushed his

anklebone in the welding shop. In spite of the lameness, he boogied to country- rock more flamboyantly than any man in east-central Virginia. Some dance critic, who worked behind the bar in a honky-tonk, said that when Boomer danced he looked like a monkey on roller skates juggling razor blades in a hurricane.
"He's a complete idiot," reported Ellen Cherry to Patsy, "but I have to admit he's a hill of fun."
In addition to what she considered an unseemly excess of body hair, what displeased Ellen Cherry about Boomer was that he knew zip about art, cared zip about art, and, moreover, discouraged her from pursuing her interest in it. (Nevertheless, whenever the young philistines of Colonial Pines fired sarcastic barbs about her "weird" paintings, Boomer threatened to remove the plaque from their gums with his steel-toed workshoes, a promise they were sure he would keep.) He was a high-school dropout.
Suspended for a week for drinking beer in biology lab—and for various instances of insubordination—he went home from school, never to return. The track coach almost wept, almost bribed him to come back. Because by that time Boomer had already broken state records in both the shot put and the discus. Half of the universities on the Atlantic Seaboard had offered him scholarships. He was deemed to be Olympic material.
"Supposin' I'd devoted the best years of my life to field events," he said to Ellen Cherry. "After all that trainin' and sweat and pain and never thinkin' or dreamin' 'bout anything else but shot puts, which at the world-class level is the way it's done, what'd I been fit for in the end but the front of a Wheaties box?"
"So what are you fit for now, darlin'? The side of a Pabst Blue Ribbon can?"
Indeed, Boomer was world-class at pumping aluminum. He guzzled beer— and an almost equally large volume of RC Cola. He gobbled pizza, watermelon, and chocolate doughnuts. With rough delicacy, he guided his torch, pouring its earnings into a hot-rod Camaro that never seemed to run right. He danced and brawled and read espionage novels. Once he bragged that he had read every international thriller ever written, many of them twice. He smoked cheap cigars. He worried his thinning hair. He took secret tango lessons. He courted Ellen Cherry Charles.
That the courtship was encouraged, even aided and abetted, by Verlin and Buddy appeared contradictory on the surface of it, considering Boomer's rowdy reputation, considering that the older Verlin's daughter grew, the more strict

Verlin became with her. Advised by Buddy, Verlin enforced a conservative dress code for Ellen Cherry. He censored her reading, monitored the television she watched, imposed a curfew, and forbade her to dab herself with the faintest trace of makeup or perfume. Surely, Verlin and Buddy could not have pictured her every Friday night at the Robert E. Lee Drive-in, her panties down around her shins, squirming on one of Boomer's big shot-putter's fingers. Or could they?
The Petways were a fine old Virginia family. There were judges and legislators in the clan. Verlin and Buddy had jigged many a bullfrog with Boomer's daddy. They understood a boy like Boomer. They did not understand Picasso.
"Art school is nothin' but a waste of your time and my money," Verlin protested. "It's flat-out silly. Bud claims art's Satan's way of belittlin' God's handiwork, and Bud may be on target. I do know it's silly. Why don't you go to a decent Christian women's college and study to be a teacher? Or develop some secretarial skills? Somethin' to fall back on. Some security. Marry yourself a good provider—"
"Like ol' Boomer?"
"A woman needs a strong, hard-workin' man. You wanna end up with some sissy makin' mudpies in a attic fulla rats?"
Ellen Cherry smiled. She was remembering the rodents that fought over spilled popcorn alongside the steamed-up cars at the Robert E. Lee.
It was only because of Patsy's militant support that Ellen Cherry was permitted to enroll at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, which had one of the top fine-arts departments in the nation. She was happy and successful at VCU. She was excited there. She learned to properly stretch and prime a canvas, to ink a lithography stone. She discovered post-painterly expressionism and Georgia O'Keeffe. O'Keeffe became at once her ideal, her heroine, the subject of a paper for which Ellen Cherry earned her first collegiate A. The eye game of her childhood she played with fresh zeal, finding it increasingly a pitchfork with which to puncture what Melville labeled the "pasteboard mask" of visible reality. She was beginning to comprehend what de Kooning meant when he said, "Whatever I see becomes my shapes and my condition."
On weekends, she Greyhounded to Colonial Pines—Daddy's orders— where she continued to date Boomer Petway. Drinking beer and motel-hopping with Boomer provided a relaxing contrast to the intensity of classroom and studio. She had herself a fairly sweet little setup. Until something happened that

busted her deal, leaving her with an emotional limp more pronounced than Boomer's jerky gait.
Among the congregation of Colonial Pines Third Baptist Church, a rumor had been circulating that art students at VCU were forced to draw naked bodies. It was said that men as well as women paraded around totally nude in front of mixed classes of boys and girls. Essentially, the report was correct, except that nobody was "forced" to enroll in life classes and that the male models always posed in jockstraps. At any rate, dissatisfied with the school's response to their letter of inquiry (Ellen Cherry, in self-defense, had denied the existence of the life classes), the Reverend Buddy Winkler and Verlin Charles decided to find out for themselves.
So dramatically did Bud and Verlin burst into the classroom that many of the students laughed and shouted, "Rambo! Rambo!" But Ellen Cherry wasn't laughing. Her protests took on a hysterical edge as Verlin pulled her from the room (Buddy Winkler remained to lambast the professor and preach to the thoroughly embarrassed model). Wails, as piercing as meat hooks, as black as swamp water, spiraled from her breast when Verlin commenced to pack her belongings.
Buddy soon joined them in the dormitory. In a frenzy, the two men seized dry washcloths and scrubbed the lipstick, rouge, and eye shadow from her face. So harsh was the scrubbing that it peeled the skin from her cheeks. Like a boiled tomato, her lips split. Her eyelids swelled until it was as though she looked at her room through a blizzard of cinders. She felt as if she were caught in a firestorm and that the purest, smoothest part of her was being pitted.
All the while, as the men scrubbed at her, they uttered one word, over and over.
"Jezebel," they chanted. "Jezebel!"
~
Jezebel rode with Ellen Cherry and Boomer in the big roast turkey. Wherever Ellen Cherry went, Jezebel went, too. If Georgia O'Keeffe had been her temporary heroine, Jezebel was her eternal double, her familiar, the bright wound she swung in like a hammock, the ceramic skeleton that clacked inside her flesh. From the day of her humiliation at VCU until the present, a

tambourine rang in her blood, and while it just as easily could have been Salome's tambourine, Ellen Cherry identified it as Jezebel's. As a rule, its ringing was soft, its beat distant: months would pass during which she and her invisible twin did not so much as brush past each other in the hall. No sooner had the turkey entered a colored canyon in southeastern Idaho, however, a place where the sandstone appeared to be painted with lavender eye shadow and pomegranate lip balms, than the latent frankincense of Jezebel filled the turkey like an effluvial stuffing and . . .
But hold on. Jezebel has waited this long, she can wait a little longer. First, we should deal with the turkey itself; its origins, its destination, its raison d'etre.
For days following her forced withdrawal from college, Ellen Cherry stayed in her room and cried. Downstairs, Patsy and Verlin quarreled viciously. Verlin called Patsy a strumpet, a mother who influenced her daughter to behave lasciviously. Patsy called Verlin a hypocrite who enjoyed lasciviousness but lacked the backbone to admit it.
"God created my body," said Patsy. "I'm not ashamed of its nekkidness."
"Fine," Verlin said. "Why don't you get undressed, and I'll call up all my friends to come paint pictures of you."
"Your friends couldn't paint a shithouse wall."
Patsy charged that she might have become a dancer if it hadn't been for Verlin. Verlin countered that she ought to fall on her knees and thank him for saving her from disgrace.
At one point Ellen Cherry overheard Verlin say, "She's been shut up in her room for damn near a week. When's she gonna come downstairs?"
"Oh, probably when her face heals," answered Patsy.
"Her face is not that bad. We cleaned it, for God's sake! It's not like we flayed her."
"In any case," Patsy said, "she can come down whenever she's good and ready to. She's free, white, and eighteen."
So I am, thought Ellen Cherry. She bolted upright in the tear-smeared bedclothes, propelled by the surprise of the obvious. "So I am!"
When she was certain that Johnny Carson had signed off for the night, she slipped downstairs—Verlin imitated alligators in the bedroom, Patsy tossed and turned on the sofa—and cooked a four-egg omelet, washing it down with the brandy Patsy used to flavor fruitcakes, the only alcohol allowed in the house.
Morning found her in the welding shop, where she somehow persuaded Boomer to loan her five hundred dollars. Maybe she threatened to tell his

drinking buddies that he took tango lessons on the sly. Maybe she twisted her tongue in his ear.
That midnight she once again crept downstairs. Patsy had moved to the bedroom, Verlin snored on the sofa. For a while, she stood over her father. Floating upon a pond of sleep, his pink face reminded her of a Monet water lily. She thought him an honorable man damaged by dogma. Patsy and Uncle Buddy were vying for his uncertain soul. Buddy had the lead, but Ellen Cherry would bet Boomer's five hundred on Patsy. Bending to kiss his cheek, she smelled the mildew and changed her mind.
Ellen Cherry boarded the next Greyhound to pass through Colonial Pines. That was at four in the morning. It carried her to Cincinnati. From there, she set out hitchhiking, heading for New Mexico to do something girlish and romantic, such as setting up her easel beside Georgia O'Keeffe's grave. She hadn't counted on the vagrancies of the road, however, and she landed in Seattle, where she was forced to modify her eye game to accommodate hissing curtains of rain.
Working nights as a waitress, Ellen Cherry earned a degree in three years from the Cornish College of the Arts. In only one way did graduation alter her fortunes: she was now eligible for membership in the Daughters of the Daily Special, a local organization of waitresses with college degrees. Paying relatively stiff weekly dues and raising additional funds with bikini car washes and bake sales (most of the bakery goods were pilfered from restaurants in which the women worked), the Daughters established a fund that awarded grants to deserving members so that they might lay down their trays and devote some time to their true calling. When Ellen Cherry won hers, she painted for six months without interruption. The work she completed was hung in a restaurant. "1 escaped, my paintings didn't," she told the girls. It may have been the happiest period in her life.
For several years, Seattle's art scene, like New York's, had been dominated by the Big Dumb Ugly Head School of painting. Dealers and collectors too insecure to buck fashion were obliged to cover their walls with clumsy portraits of the aggressive victims of urban angst: those angry, tormented sourpusses for whom the next plutonium enema apparently was right around the corner. In the background was the compulsory burning building, skull-and-crossbones, or rabid dog with a hard-on. The world of art is seldom slow to rotate on its gelt-greased axis, however, and—wham!—overnight, connoisseurs were interested in integrity, vision, and technique again. Because of nostalgia, perhaps, an unconscious yearning for a countryside not damned by pollution and

development, landscape painting began to be taken seriously for the first time since the Great Depression. And a path began to be beaten to the door of Ellen Cherry Charles.
Sure, she depicted cattails growing out of the side of ferry boats; sure, her trees were loops in space, her mountains sky-blue and her skies as tan as stone: they were recognizably landscapes, nonetheless, and they acquired an audience. She hadn't the trendiest gallery, the most chic patrons, but she was launched, as they say, and down to two shifts a week at the War on Tuna Café.
Generally speaking, that was her situation when Boomer drove into Seattle in the turkey.
~
Approaching retirement, Boomer's father had purchased an Airstream motor home with the notion that he and his wife might spend their golden years touring the United States. "We'll drive this sucker from sea to shining sea," he said. "And not miss a one of our favorite TV shows," added Mrs. Petway.
Alas, midway through his retirement party, at the apex of merriment, Mr. Petway collapsed and died. His widow sold their house and moved in with a sister, but not before signing over the Airstream to Boomer.
"What the hell am I gonna do with an eight-ton silver egg?" Boomer wondered.
His metaphor was apt. Except that it had a cockpit with steering wheel, Airstream's motor home looked almost exactly like its famous trailer. Which is to say, it looked like the ovoid deposit of a metallic dragon-bird, the hard-boiled cackleberry the Statue of Liberty was about to peel for her breakfast. Silvery as starlight, bulbous as a porpoise nose, the Airstream was an elongated pea, a bean, a sausage skin inflated with mercury, a land blimp, a lemon (in shape, not performance), the football of the titans.
Each morning before he went to work, Boomer would stand in his driveway, hands on his hips, scrutinize the Airstream, and shake his head. Some days, if he wasn't late, hungover, or both, he would circle it, tracing its curves in the dust with his lame foot. One morning, a funny picture popped into his mind. From then on, every time he saw the motor home, he thought of that image.
This continued for approximately a year, until one Friday he awoke in a mood that could best be described as operatic. Overwrought, melodramatic,

exploding with energy, his head swimming in a kind of ornate, fatalistic overture, he frightened away the soprano with whom he'd spent the night, fetched a six-pack, and drove the Airstream to the welding shop. There, ignoring work orders and the hoots of his assistants, he spent a month fabricating a pair of giant metal drumsticks and two stumpy metal wings, then welding them to the motor-home body in appropriate positions.
"There," Boomer said. "If that ain't the spittin' image of a roast turkey, what is?"
"It's cute," the girls all said. "How'd you ever think of that?" They giggled nervously.
"You've goddamned ruined a highly expensive piece of equipment," his buddies accused. They were embarrassed for him.
Calmly now, he packed every thread of his wardrobe (six pairs of jeans, five Hawaiian shirts), his welding paraphernalia, and collection of spy novels into the forward storage bin. He loaded on a cargo of Pabst. And then he aimed the glimmering breast of the thing northwestward.
"If Ellen Cherry's not with me on this," he said, "I'll just motor on down to Mexico and tequila myself into a stand-up fossil."
~
Women were more interested in sex than men were, Ellen Cherry was convinced of that. True, men talked about sex more. Men were forever making a big deal about it with jokes, Hustler magazines, aggressive advances, and transparent braggadocio—but in her opinion that was largely for the benefit of other males. They thought that to be masculine, they had to be copulative dynamos, and it was largely to prop up their insecure masculinity that they resorted to sexual display, whereas, in fact, it was their relatively mild interest in actual physical contact that was largely the source of that insecurity. Why am I not more horny? Why isn't my pecker bigger? Why am I washed up after one orgasm when she can have a dozen and still be ready to go (to go with some fresh man)? How do I know that kid's really mine? It's got red hair! Ellen Cherry had to laugh.
Typically, her own interest in sex was abiding and deep. And incognito. In a patriarchal society, the abiding sexuality of the healthy female was obliged to wear a prim disguise. Unaware of the irony, men flaunted their pale desires,

while the stronger passions of the woman were usually concealed. Nobody could tell Ellen Cherry otherwise.
The only thing that interested Ellen Cherry more than sex—in her five years in Seattle, she had drained the night drops from at least eight swains, none, she discovered to her dismay, half as satisfying as Boomer—was love. And art. Well, sex, love, and art intermingled when Boomer eased the remodeled Airstream into her apartment house parking lot.
Its honking drew her to the kitchenette window. The notorious raindrops of Seattle blistered the fire escape, and the sky looked like bad banana baby food. But there it was! Shining in the gray. Thirty-two feet long, sixteen thousand, five hundred pounds. Emergency lights blinking, windshield wipers chasing themselves. And beside it, Boomer Petway doing his wild and gimpy dance, splashing puddle water almost as high as its appendages.
"I made it for you!" Boomer yelled. "Made it for you, little sugar britches! "Wahoo!"
After combing her curls with the most convenient implement, which
happened to be a tofu-encrusted chopstick, she raced downstairs. Oblivious to the shotgun drizzle, incandescent with surprise and wonder, she circumambulated the outlandish turkeymobile, hand in hand with its creator. Around and around they went, in a glow of amused admiration, until they had practically worn a path in the wet asphalt. Eventually, he swept her up in his arms and carried her into the belly of the beast. Her panties were off before she hit the bed.
He tricked me, Ellen Cherry was thinking now. With art and sex, he tricked me into love.
Trouble was, she had scant faith in her love for Boomer. Married less than a week and already it was slipping like a frayed fan belt. Lust she feared would also leave in time. Just fly out the transom one morning on its salty red wings. Whatever happened, though, her art would see her through. She was confident enough in it to take it to New York. Give her the big time. Give her a big break. Give her Manhattan. The Bronx and Staten Island, too. Give her this day her daily bread. Boomer's welding, for the time being, would bring home the bacon and the turpentine.
Boomer had asked her once, in a telephone call from Virginia, "Why does this stuff, these hand-painted hallucinations that don't do nothin' but confuse the puddin' out of a perfectly reasonable wall, why does it mean so much to you?"

It was a poor connection, but he could have sworn he heard her say, "In the haunted house of life, art is the only stair that doesn't creak."
Mr. and Mrs. Petway, tricked and trickster, were turkey-trotting through a loop of the Bible Belt. Slogans of the death cult were everywhere. "Jesus Is Coming," the billboards announced. "Prepare to Meet Thy Maker." "Repent for the End Is Near." Can o' Beans had the feeling that if doomsday didn't arrive quite soon, those people were going to take up a collection and send for it.
"Time Is Running Out." "Have You Reserved Your Place in New Jerusalem?" Echoes of Uncle Buddy and his ilk. It gave Ellen Cherry the Hebrew-jeebies. Especially since the brightly hued cliffs and craters that surrounded the billboards had succeeded in releasing her doppelgänger, old Jezebel, from her rouge jar.
"Bring Him the Bleeding Head of the Whore," read one sign, and that one really escalated the willies, because Ellen Cherry was positive that the "Whore" to whom the sign referred was Jezebel.
She had outgrown her susceptibility to car sickness, but she squinted anyway, intending to employ the eye game as a distraction. Instantly, the rough, irregular contours of the sandstone landscape, the interlocking configurations of mesa, gully, and natural chimney, began to soften, to sift, to close off the background space so that the countryside was projected forward, millimeters in front of Ellen Cherry's nose, where it presented itself as laced webs of scrambled color. Alas, since the jumbled color was both powdery and decorative—it tended toward salmon, grape, and ivory—it was even more evocative of cosmetics than when it was in hard-edged perspective, and Jezebel's presence was reinforced rather than denied. The artist called off the game.
Soon after arriving in Seattle, the incident at VCU still painfully alive in her mind, she had procured a bible and gone searching for the lurid details of Jezebel's debauchery. From Sunday school, she had a hazy picture of a thoroughly immoral harlot who costumed herself like a rock "n' roll vamp, but she couldn't recall a single biographical fact. Imagine her surprise when the Old Testament Book of Kings informed her that Jezebel was a royal—and faithful— wife.
Actually, the biblical story of Jezebel is only a few sentences long. It seems that she and her husband, King Ahab, were accused of practicing idolatry by a young right-winger named Jehu, who had designs on the throne. Earlier, Ahab had acquired by devious means some real estate belonging to a neighbor, and

Jezebel was said to have sparked a rumor that led to the neighbor's death. Ahab, a Hebrew, was king of northern Israel; Jezebel was the daughter of a king and queen of Phoenicia. Being a foreigner, she didn't wholeheartedly worship the god of the Jews, which may have led to the "idolatry" charges, but aside from loyally supporting her husband in his suspect land deal, she apparently had been as properly behaved as, say, Queen Elizabeth.
Then, there was a curious and fatal episode. The ambitious Jehu, having secretly murdered Jezebel's son (Ahab, in the meantime, had died in battle), came riding up to the palace. When Jezebel heard of his unscheduled visit, she, according to Scripture, "painted her face and tired her head and looked out a window." Another translation had her painting her "eyes" and "arranging her hair." In any case, there she was, freshly groomed, looking out at the Hebrew rebel, when he incited "two or three eunuchs" to "throw her down." "Her blood splattered the wall," according to the gory old Bible, and Jehu left her in the courtyard for the dogs to eat while he went inside and helped himself to the wine. After a few flagons, he must have felt a prick of guilt because he ordered his flunkies to go bury her, but by that time the mutts had left nothing but "her skull, her feet, and the palms of her hands."
Ellen Cherry was as mystified as the fly that wasted a day following a plastic horse. What had Queen Jezebel done to earn the distinction as our all- time treacherous slut? In the Bitch Hall of Fame, Jezebel had a room of her own; nay, an entire wing. For fixing her hair and applying makeup? Was it implied that she went to the window to flirt with the rebel warrior? And if so, was that so wicked that it should wreck her reputation for three thousand years? The trimillennial lash-bat?
As Ellen Cherry walked the rain-rippled pavement of Seattle, bumbershooting from restaurant to restaurant in search of a job, she bore upon her back the weight of a skull, a pair of feet, and the palms of two hands. The nails of the feet were lacquered vermilion, a pretty ribbon fluttered from a lacuna in the skull. And she would wonder as she walked, "What is the Bible trying to tell us?"
That Satan is a hairdresser?
That Elizabeth Arden ought to be fed to the poodles?
"Spooky around here, don't you think, Boomer?" "Well, it's kinda like the moon."
"We should have taken the direct route."

"What's the hurry? This is our honeymoon. Honeymoon on the moon." "Are you nervous about New York?"
"Why, hell no. No reason for me to be nervous. New York's just a big pile
of iron and steel. Perfect for a welder." He focused on the countryside. They were either in Wyoming or Utah now, he wasn't sure which, and the rock formations looked like furniture in the lobby of the Eternity Hotel. "Out here," he said, "a welding torch could atrophy. Just wither away and die from lack of use." He stared at his bride. There was no danger in staring. The road was as straight as a shot of grain alcohol, and the jackrabbits, well, each individual rabbit had the right to make his or her own choice when it came to crossing the path of an onrushing Airstream turkey. "There's a part of me gonna atrophy and drop off, too, if you and me don't make a rest stop pretty soon."
"Oh, Boomer! You just had some this morning."
"That was this morning." He squeezed her thigh.
"Oh, Boomer!"
He turned back to the highway but continued to grip her leg as though it
were a misshapen shot put that he might at any second hurl into the record books of western Wyoming. Or was it Utah? "Maybe New York is making you a little nervous, huh, babe?"
She shook her tumbleweed, her butterscotch maelstrom, but she answered, "Yeah, I guess. Famous artists, dealers, collectors, curators, critics. I'll be involved with some high-powered people, rich, sophisticated hard-ball players; me, Ellen Cherry Charles, the painting waitress, the little Jezebel of Colonial Pines."
Boomer snatched his eyes off the road again, allowing a jackrabbit to fulfill its pact with destiny. "Mrs. Randolph Petway the Third—of the Virginia Petways —and don't ever let 'em forget it."
He wished that she wouldn't link herself to Jezebel like that. No matter how lightly she phrased it, it struck him as self-deprecating. A person can't make a career out of somebody else's invective. Only recently, an observer had called him a hydrocephalic lummox, and he hadn't even bothered to look it up. Was Ellen Cherry just picking scabs or what?
Confused by the Bible's portrayal of Jezebel—it appeared to contend that cosmetics were witchcraft, and coquetry a capital offense— Ellen Cherry had asked Patsy (lines of communication with her parents had been reopened approximately six months after she settled in Seattle) what she knew about the queen's sordid reputation.

"Just a real tacky woman, I reckon."
"Mama! Is it possible you could be more specific?"
"Your daddy didn't mean it, honey. Calling you ugly names. Bud just had
him all festered up. Bud makes him feel guilty about stuff they did when they were boys, mischief they got into, and then he manipulates him. But—"
"Mama, please, do me a favor and just ask Uncle Buddy what Jezebel did that was so bad. I'd like particulars."
The next time the Reverend Buddy Winkler stopped by for dinner, Patsy had, indeed, raised the subject. There was silence, except for the musical sizzle of pork chops in the skillet. Slowly, the preacher got up from the kitchen chair, a chair whose green enamel contrasted vividly with his berry-domed boils, and he laid his hungry expression upon Patsy like the tongue of a steer. She could almost feel strings of cold saliva dripping to make paste of the flour on her apron.
"You tryin' to spoil my appetite, Patsy? Ain't there enough pork chops to go 'round? Utterin' the name of that shameless fornicator, that painted hussy before we've sat down to our supper. I want you to lead our grace tonight, so's to scour the scum the name of Jezebel may have left in your mouth."
"My mouth's spic and span, thank you, Bud." She opened it wide and held it open for a while, close to his face, to see if looking into her pink yawn would set off his tic. It did. "Jest tell me, who all did this ol' hussy fornicate with?"
Buddy stepped back. Something about the way she said "fornicate" unnerved him. "Patsy now."
"Well, who, Bud?"
When he spoke again it was in his pulpit voice, his saxophone voice, his blue flame voice, although the jaw tic that Patsy had inspired caused him to miss occasional stops and to blur the higher registers. "It is written in the Book of Revelation, chapter two, verse eighteen, that God Almighty sent a message to the church in Thyatira—"
"Where?"
"Thyatira."
"Where's that?"
"It don't matter! It don't exist anymore. God said unto them, 'I have a few
things against thee, because thou sufferest a woman named Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication.'"
"So, she didn't do the fornicating herself. She tried to get other folks to do

it."
"Patsy, you're missin' the point. Jezebel was a prophetess of Baal. She was
a pagan fanatic, she was a filthy idolator who led the Israelites away from Jehovah. For twenty-seven years, that woman used her power as queen to try and overthrow Jehovah and replace him with the idols of her native country."
"What was the king doing all this time?"
"Ahab was under her thumb. It's the same ol' story. A connivin' woman influencin' a weak man to commit crimes he never woulda had the gumption to commit by hisself."
"Uh-huh."
"She wanted to convert Is-ra-el to Baal worship. I'm talkin' the golden calf, Patsy. You know what I'm talkin? I'm talkin' strange shrines in the woods. I'm talkin' nekkidness and orgy and human sacrifice. Little children by the hundreds sacrificed to some stupid, smelly dairy animal. Babies hacked to pieces on a greasy altar in the moonlight—"
"Gross!" Patsy suddenly held the plumping pork chops in vomitus regard. "I don't wanna hear about dead babies."
"Oh, we hear a heap of ugly things when we speak of Jezebel. Her lies sent an innocent neighbor to a horrible end so that Ahab could annex his vineyards."
"Hubby's little helper went too far, you say? But tell me now, Bud, where does the makeup figger in?"
"The makeup?"
"You know, the painted woman thing. Isn't that what she's remembered for?"
"Patsy, have you never seen a baboon's bottom?"
"I thought we agreed not to spoil our supper."
"A baboon's rump is redder than your apron. Sometimes there's yellow and
blue thrown in. Why does your baboon have a colored rump? To attract other baboons to mate with it. Why did Jezebel color her face? I'll wager you can make the obvious connection." He paused. He returned the saxophone to its case.
"Taters are done, I see. Maybe I should call Verlin in. Monday night football, he'll be wanting to eat and scat."
Later in the week, Patsy had telephoned Ellen Cherry in Seattle and catalogued, as faithfully as she dared, Jezebel's vices.
"Neat," Ellen Cherry had said. "I'm delighted to learn that I've been compared to a heathen fornication instructor, a husband corrupter, and a baboon's ass, all in one lump."

Patsy, who had purposely omitted the part about diced babies, cautioned her, "You've got to accept some of Buddy's preaching with a grain of salt. Granted, he's a man of God, but ol' Bud has got . . . ambition."
"Mama, you say it like he's got a disease."
"Well, ambition's not as bad as AIDS, I reckon. But it can be a whole lot worse than the measles."
~
They were making good time. Saying adios to the rock stacks. Boomer hated to leave them behind. He admired the way the paladins of pumice seemed intent to stand on their own wide feet, to stand tall, face their gods, and one day ascend from this chatty planet to a world more worthy of their silence. Look at 'em back there, rugged and unwavering, not a Pouilly-jumé sipper in the lot. No, those rocks were not artists but working stiffs, heroic welders who could mend the hinges of hell, yet if need be, if their loved ones required it, could transform a motor home into a traveling juggernaut entree basted by the butters of the sun.
The rock formations were thinning out, however. The land was starting to jut less and roll more. Rolling toward the Rockies. It was less arid here. In fact, the road was running parallel with a stream, a tributary of the Green River, perhaps. Juniper sprouted from the hillocks, and barely budding aspen huddled along the creek like ghost squaws come to launder their sheets.
There weren't any settlements, not even on the map, but sure enough, around the next bend a billboard stood, quoting, in archaic English, the apocalyptic ran tings of a long-dead Middle Eastern prophet. It made Ellen Cherry shudder, and then it made her mad. "Anybody," she said to herself, "who would erect a garish billboard in a beautiful setting like this would fart in a phone booth, dynamite a hummingbird feeder, use the Mona Lisa for a dartboard, consult a Japanese light meter at the burning of the Hindenburg, or name their firstborn after Richard Milhous Nixon."
On they rolled, turkey and hills. The dire prophesy did not slow them down, nor did it relieve the driver's grip on the passenger's thigh. Suddenly, Ellen Cherry brightened.
"Boomer, you realize you and I can't fornicate anymore?"
He looked astonished. "We can't?"
"Why, no. We're married now. Dictionary says fornication is between

unmarried persons. From now on, we've got to call it something else." "When did we ever call it fornication in the first place? That's a dumb
word: fornicate. Sounds like something lawyers do. Government lawyers." "Well, we've fornicated for the last time, darlin'." She placed her small hand
atop his huge one. "So what're we going to do from now on?"
"Same thing but call it something friendly." He was trying to remember if
anyone in a spy novel ever spoke of "fornication." Certainly not Bond.
"What would you call it, then? What friendly thing are we going to do from
now on?"
"I hadn't thought about it."
"Well, think about it." With her nails, she raked the hair on the back of his
hands. "What would you like to call it?"
"1 don't wanna call it anything. I just wanna do it."
"Then let's do it."
In teasing him, she had gotten herself aroused. While she kissed the right
corner of his mouth, he pulled the vehicle off the road, concealing it behind the last mesa in the wilderness.
~
"Will the New Jerusalem look like Richmond, the lovely capital of our most lovely state? Nay. Will it look like Washington, D.C., the great capital of this great nation? Nay. Will it look like London or Paris or even—even, what? What's another city that everybody thinks is hot stuff in the beauty department? Uh . . . Venice. Will it look like Venice? Nay. Am I using too many 'nays' here? Oh, no! All these grand cities will shrink beside the New Jerusalem; Rome at the height of its glory will, no, would, be but a slum in comparison to . . . Tallahassee. Tallahassee, you moron!"
Despite the prodding of the Reverend Buddy Winkler, the contestant identified the capital of Florida as Miami Beach—"Miami Beach? The moron must be a Jewish moron."—thereby losing out on a set of fine Wedgwood china and a year's supply of margarine.
"Now, let's see. Where was I? Ever' last city that man has built in this world, including the fabulous showplaces of the Oriental potentates, that's good, 'fabulous showplaces of Oriental potentates,' will pale into ghettos. . . . Hmmm, I guess your ghetto is not exactly, pale, is it? Heh. Will pale beside the

transformed Jerusalem that God Almighty will bring down from heaven to serve as the capital of his kingdom on earth, the city where, in which, you and me— you and I—will for all eternity . . . rumba. Come on, stupid. Rumba! Oh? Okay, samba. What's the blessed difference? Nobody dances like that anymore. Let's see. For all eternity dwell. Dwell or live? Ummm ..."
The Reverend Buddy Winkler was experiencing some difficulty with his powers of concentration. The game show was not to blame. He always watched television game shows while working on a sermon. As a rule, they proved more inspirational than distracting. All that energetic yearning. Each contestant standing at the gate of wealth, hoping to be judged worthy of admission. No, it wasn't "Wheel of Fortune" that was slowing his pen, it was the good news from the Baptist network. Only that morning, he had learned that two stations in California and one in Oregon had agreed to air his weekly broadcasts. California, yet! Talk about your going forth among your whores, publicans, and sinners. At the rate that his radio exposure was expanding, could a TV contract be long in coming? He couldn't afford to keep postponing a dental overhaul. On the tube, your smile was your mustard-cutter and not a penny less. "Right, Bob?" He grinned at the game show host. And then, the merry saliva turning to roach powder in his cheeks, he drew a despairing hand over his candy jar of boils. "Heal!" he almost shouted, but he was not that kind of preacher.
Buddy's mind wandered to the house call he must make the following day. A member of his local congregation had recently, at the age of eighty-two, undergone surgery to restore her sight. She had been blind since four. The operation was an unqualified success, yet when she looked in a mirror for the first time and observed her corduroy complexion, observed the fissures and puckers that caused her countenance to resemble a close-up photograph of a Laplander's scrotum, she ignored the miracle of vision and flew into a fury. Having never seen an old person's face, she thought the doctors had done it to her, that the epidermal wasteland was an unnatural consequence of the surgery, and she was intent upon filing a malpractice suit. Neither her family nor her attorney could dissuade her, so it fell to Buddy, as her minister, to explain how and why God routinely made prunes out of his little sugarplums.
"For seventy-eight years, that woman sat in the dark, unaware that the cream was curdling. At least I wasn't ambushed." He let his fingers glide over the pustules again, then it was back to the sermon.
Of the New Jerusalem, the Lord revealed to John that its gates were pearls; its foundations garnished with precious stones. Buddy underlined the Bible

verse: "The city was pure gold, like unto clear glass."
He supposed that he was obliged to defend that description. There would be
debunkers out in California who would object that pure gold wouldn't stand up as construction material. Even in Colonial Pines, the unrighteous, the troublemakers might raise issues of practicality. Patsy might, for example.
Well, he'd be ready, he'd head them off at the pass. "If I was one of these so-called modern preachers, I might say to you, don't get literal on me. John's vision of the New Jerusalem is not meant to be taken at face value. We're dealin' with your symbolism here. John was shown a city that was so beautiful, so glorious, so overwhelmin' to his senses that he compared it to jewels and gold because he lacked the language to describe its reality. John just helped hisself to the most high-sounding metaphors he could come up with. Well, if you wanna believe that the saints and prophets of biblical times went around talkin' like English professors, you're welcome to it. I believe the Holy Bible means exactly what it says. True, you or me couldn't build a house outta pure gold and have it hold up. Donald Trump couldn't build a skyscraper outta gold and have it last. But, brothers and sisters, God can do anything he wants! It was God that made gold in the first place. God could build a city outta ..." Buddy was about to say "grits" until it occurred to him that there were folks listening nowadays who probably were unfamiliar with grits. He surely wasn't going to substitute tofu, California or no California. The idea of a tofu city was both sacrilegious and repulsive. "God could build a city outta . . . cobwebs if he took a notion to, and it would outlast Pittsburgh." Yes, indeed, the Reverend Buddy Winkler would stand tall and say to the doubters and modernizers, "Pancreas! Sweetbreads are your gourmet term for your cow pancreas. Come on, Bob, out with it. That sturdy plastic lawn furniture by Bessie of Beverly Hills is mine!"
Alas, Buddy Winkler never learned for certain if "pancreas" was the correct answer, for at that instant the game show was interrupted by a news bulletin. Another bomb had exploded on a crowded bus in Jerusalem, killing nineteen and wounding fifty-four.
~
Boomer thought that they would simply make love in the turkey, back in the rear of the bird on the corner double bed in "blush" color scheme with deep innerspring mattress and color-coordinated quilted bedspread (ample storage

tucked away beneath the bed with "pack-at-home" removable trays). Ellen Cherry had other ideas. The sun was shining, it was the first week of spring, there was little traffic and no inhabitants—she wanted to do their friendly thing outdoors in the open air, in the zone of vegetation beneath a gulping sky.
"We'll have a picnic, too," she announced, and she swept into a paper bag a box of crackers, a tin of sardines, a can of pork and beans, a jar of dill pickles, cheeses of both the cheddar and jack varieties, a can opener, a knife, and a spoon. Boomer added four frosted beers.
Hand in hand, she short, he tall, she bouncy, he lame, they walked along the stream. The bank was shaded and many degrees cooler than it had appeared from inside the motor home, so they left the creek and set out across a sun-sprayed hill. Releasing her hand, Boomer walked a few paces ahead of her, meaning that Ellen Cherry, the brisker walker, was forced to throttle her gait. He meant to protect her from any venomous reptile awakened from hibernation by the bells of spring. To that end, he brandished a hefty stick, with which he swatted the bushes and clumps of grass that they passed. From time to time, as they searched for an ideal spot to spread their blanket, he glanced over his shoulder at her, regarding her, as he often did before they made love, as if she were a lost continent about to be rediscovered.
It was sweet of him, she thought, to be protective; sweet and typically southern. In her experience, southern men tended to be charming that way. Protective as Brink's, polite as tea, respectful as a job applicant during a recession. Yet, just beneath the surface of that inviting lagoon, fierce green lobsters clanged brutal claws. Possessive and pugilistic, even the most educated and aristocratic of them—lawyers, psychologists, investment bankers—engaged in fisticuffs with some regularity, usually at swell parties where ponds of bourbon were drained, and frequently over a harmless flirtation. Southern men were trapped in a backwater of masculine ethics, a classical male image that the rest of the population had largely outgrown. To be sure, their code of honor precipitated their chivalrous charm, but it also fostered the primate-band competitiveness that prevented them from relaxing unless dead drunk. Their strength was a facade, for it emanated from rules and protocol rather than from self-knowledge or inner resources. They were paper tigers, these Dixie white boys, though Ellen Cherry would ever prefer them to Latino males: those guys— Mexicans, Puerto Ricans, some Italians, even—had absolutely no sense of humor about themselves and got angry over offenses so small a woman required a microscope to identify them.

As for Greek men, she was on the verge of tarring them with the Latino brush when her southern Anglo-Saxon groom, who, she was concluding, was preferable to many Mediterraneans, most South Americans, and all art critics, interrupted with a wave of his club. "Look there," he called, pointing toward a cavity in the hillside just below a rocky overhang. "A cave."
Indeed, it was. Due to the manner in which Ellen Cherry automatically looked at landscapes, squinting and widening, focusing and fuzzing, employing her eye game to drag God's patio furniture from one retinal lanai to another, she probably would have missed it. For that matter, a conventional hiker might have passed it by, as well, since the cave was small and its opening partially obscured by juniper bushes and fallen shale.
As they climbed the slope to its entrance, they entertained similar ideas. The afternoon breeze had stiffened, and spring or no spring, it was chilly enough to pave their backsides with goose bumps at the very thought of undressing. Perhaps the cave would shelter them, provide a warm, cozy haven where they might launch their carnal canoe. They would still be out in nature, but as snug as if swallowed up by the turkey.
Naturally, Boomer insisted on scouting it first. Because the hillside was steep, a fair amount of light angled into the cave's opening. "It's shallow and right dusty, but it looks okay," he reported when he was positive there were no rattlesnakes or bears lying in wait for his tasty bride. She dropped to her hands and knees and followed him inside.
Once in the chamber, they could have stood upright, but standing upright was not what they were there for.
"Have you ever done any spelunking?" Ellen Cherry inquired as she arranged the picnic.
Boomer knew perfectly well what speleology was, since Trevanian's Shibumi, with its cave-exploring protagonist, was his favorite spy novel, but he replied, "Is that a fancy form of fornicatin'—or is it something married people can do?"
Ellen Cherry set down the pickles and regarded him drolly. For all of his rowdy bluster, she knew him to be actually rather shy in the trenches. "Oh," she said finally, "some married men are expert spelunkers." She took his left hand and, lubricating his ring finger by licking it, removed his wedding band. His protests dwindled into grunts when she gave the finger a bonus suck.
Hiking her skirt up to her waist and pulling her panties down a few

tantalizing inches, she slipped the wedding ring into her vagina. She gave it a poke to, well, ascertain that it was securely hidden; then, with a kind of reverse flourish, like a magician who has pulled a rabbit into a hat, she snapped her elastic and announced that he could try his luck at spelunking whenever he felt fit.
The urn, the oh, the ah; the rubbery slap slap of bare bellies, damp as cavern walls; the clink of gold against tooth enamel as they passed the salty wedding ring from mouth to mouth; the almost audible vibration of her tiny stalactite.
He was lost among glowworms, among silky sprays of bats. Down the shaft of his explorer, he sensed a trickle, like mineral solutions slowly dripping into the eternity of a subterranean lake. There had been other spelunkers in these hollows, that she had confessed, but he took solace in the knowledge that he'd been first, that his was the brush that had left the hunting scenes upon her labial Lascaux.
Um oh ah, this troglodyte love was for him, he reckoned; this cave within a cave, this paleolithic pussy, this descent into the deepest dark of fuck. With what intensity they stared into each other's eyes, their gazes roped together like the discoverers of Carlsbad! Boomer felt that they were squeezed into a narrow crevasse that any moment now would expel them with a rush into a fabulous undiscovered chamber, resplendent with polychrome columns and calcite organ pipes—but, alack, Ellen Cherry chose at that instant to utter a word that jarred him as rudely as a collision with a dripstone.
"Jezebel," she whispered.
"Uh?"
"Please, darlin', call me Jezebel."
Oh, no, he thought. Not this. She's turning kinky on me. He said nothing,
but increased the power of his thrust. "Come on, honey."
"Huh-uh." He wished she'd be quiet. That wedding ring trick was cute, but this . . .
"Come on, now. Call me your Jezebel."
"Aw, gee, Ellen Cherry." He pumped with even greater velocity, but she persisted in her demand, and he could tell that if they continued to argue he would lose his erection. Already, it was bowing in the middle like a maître d's tie. "Jezebel," he grunted.

"I can't hear you."
"Jezebel." There was a detectable shortage of enthusiasm.
She sunk her fingernails into his buttocks, her teeth into his shoulder. "Say
it, Boomer."
Against his better judgment—was this the way women behaved once they
married?—he called it out, loud and clear. "Jezebel!" It echoed: "Jezebel! Jezebel!" The name rattled in the little cave like a die in a cup.
Digging her nails in deeper, Ellen Cherry bucked against him. A moan wobbled out of her throat like an overweight dove.
"Jezebel!" he yelled. "You cheap slutting cunt-whoring Jez-a-fucking-bel!"
With that, he lost consciousness. As for her, her orgasm had been lent the necessary dynamic gradient that in classical theater promises its audience catastrophe, immortality, or both.
Of course, there was no audience there in that funky, obscure little burrow in the disappearing American wilderness.
Or was there?
They lay in silence, barely touching, their postcoital reverie edged with mild embarrassment. Each was waiting for the other to speak, each secretly hoping that when the other did speak, his or her remarks would be cheerful and loving, with no trace of the shame that muzzled the other—and with absolutely no reference to a certain maligned queen from the ninth century B.C. They might have lain like that until the sun went down but for the fact that three or four minutes after their sex cries subsided—it seemed considerably longer—there was a stirring at the rear of the cave.
Ellen Cherry froze. Boomer bolted to a sitting position and made a frantic search for his club.
There it was again, a dry rustle followed by the sort of noise Boomer's work shoe made when he was tired and given to dragging his bad foot. Ellen Cherry's eyes widened, and not in the service of some arty game. Her protective southern husband turned in the direction of the sounds.
At most, the cave was twenty feet deep. To be sure, the light was dim, but they could see easily to the back wall. There was no place for anything, man or beast, to hide. Unless. . . . For the first time, Boomer noticed a small niche, a vaginal slit in the left corner. It was about eight feet from the ñoor, up near the ceiling, too high to peer into. It hardly seemed adequate to conceal an animal, although he supposed one or more snakes might have called it home.

The noises weren't quite right for snakes, however, nor for the ghost of Injun Joe. Imagine, if you will, that a naive girl has accepted the invitation of an older gentleman to peruse his etchings. Imagine the leather-bound book being dragged from a shelf, the turning of its heavy, expensive pages. Then, imagine the young girl, in her nervousness, knocking over the quart of mescal with which the gentleman would ply her, freeing the mescal worm, which comes to life and tries to organize a revolution in a basket of nacho-flavored corn chips. Those were the kind of noises they were.
Comes to life. . . . There was an accompanying sensation, a feeling that overtook our couple the instant they heard the noises, and that they were later to agree was a sensation of something coming to life, although what they couldn't guess. It was spooky, more spooky even than the prospect of some fat fang- snapping reptile sliding down from the niche on its squamous stomach. They pulled on their clothes, snatched up their picnic things, and vacated that den in a flash.
All the way back to the highway, they kept checking to determine that they weren't being pursued, and it wasn't until they were safely inside the turkey that they could laugh.
"You're only wearing one sock," Ellen Cherry pointed out.
"Lucky to get one on," Boomer said. "You manage to put on your underpants?"
"Of course. What do you think I am, some Jezebel?"
They stared at each other for one tense moment, then, giggling, fell into a long and tight embrace.
"Must've left that sock behind as an offering to the cave monster," said Boomer.
"As I recall, honey, you'd been wearing that sock for three days."
"Jesus. You're right. How offensive! We better haul on outta here."
Joking aside, they drove quite a distance before they felt comfortable. Even
then, they were too flustered to realize that in addition to Boomer's sweat-caked sock, they had left behind in the cave a fine silver spoon and a can of beans.
~
For approximately a quarter hour after the couple fled the cave, the stirring continued in its niche. None but Dirty Sock, Spoon, and Can o' Beans was privy

to it now.
"I'm frightened," said Spoon.
"Nothin' in there can hurt us," said Dirty Sock. The idea of a viper biting an
old purple sock struck him as funny. Were there a possibility of a puppy in the niche, he would have been less amused.
"Shhh," shushed Can o' Beans. "Hear those sighs. Whatever is waking up in there is waking up slowly because they've been asleep a long, long time."
Can o' Beans was correct. In fact, nearly two thousand springs had come and gone since that which was awakening was last awake. Obviously, more than a simple vernal equinox was required to interrupt such slumber. What had awakened that which was awakening was the sexual intercourse of Mr. and Mrs. Boomer Petway, combined with the echoing shouts of a familiar and treasured name.
Oh, yes, Jezebel was well known to those that hibernated in the nook. Any questions that Ellen Cherry had concerning the "painted hussy" could have been answered by them in accurate detail.
They could, for example, have supplied the following information:
Except in an entirely secondary manner, Queen Jezebel never worshipped Baal. Baal was the ancient Semite word for "lord" or "husband." The god referred to by the Bible as Baal had divine status primarily because he was husband to Astarte. It was Astarte whom Jezebel worshipped.
Who was Astarte? She was a goddess; rather, she was the Goddess, the Great Mother, the Light of the World, the most ancient and widely revered divinity in human history. Shrines to her date back to the Neolithic Period, and there was not one Indo-European culture that failed to remove with its kiss the mud from her sidereal slippers. In comparison, "God," as we moderns call Yahweh (often misspelled "Jehovah") was a Yahny-come-lately who would never approach her enormous popularity. She was the mother of God, as indeed, she was mother of all. As beloved as she was for her life-giving and nurturing qualities, the only activities of hers acceptable to the patriarchs, she was mistress over destruction as well as creation, representing, according to one scholar, "the abyss that is the source and the end, the ground of all being."
In Jezebel's native Phoenicia, the Goddess's name was Astarte. In Babylon, she was Ishtar; in India, Kali; in Greece, Demeter (immature aspect: Aphrodite). If Saxon was your indigenous tongue, you would address her as Ostara; if Nordic, you'd say Freya; if Egyptian, Isis—or Nut or Hathor or Neith. Oh, the Goddess had many names, and many roles. She was virgin, bride, mother,

prostitute, witch, and hanging judge, all swirled into one. She had more phases than the moon. She knew the dark side of the moon like the palm of her hand. She shopped there.
Because the Goddess was changeable and playful, because she looked upon natural chaos as lovingly as she did natural order, because her warm feminine intuition was often at odds with cool masculine reason, because the uterine magic of her daughters had since the dawn of consciousness overshadowed the penis power of her sons, resentful priests of a tribe of nomadic Hebrews led a coup against her some four thousand years ago—and most of what we know as Western civilization is the result. Life still begins in the womb, cocky erections still collapse and lie useless when woman's superior sexuality is finished with them, but men control the divine channels now, and while that control may be largely an illusion, their laws, institutions, and elaborate weaponry exist primarily to maintain it.
In Jezebel's time, a full millennium after the patriarchal revolt, Yahweh had managed to establish no more than a precarious foothold. Today, each and every ejaculation, each and every earthquake or harvest moon may remind the deep male unconscious of the Goddess's continued presence, but in the ninth century B.C., she was openly worshipped in the lands surrounding Israel, and covertly in Israel itself. Small wonder, then, that when King Ahab's Phoenician bride started building shrines to Astarte, and when the Israelites started flocking to those shrines—the populace apparently favored Astarte's voluptuous indulgence over Yahweh's rigid asceticism—the patriarchs reacted violently against her. Interestingly enough, one of the crimes charged to Jezebel, according to the historian Josephus, was the planting of trees. Since the Goddess always has been honored in sacred groves, it is understandable that patriarchs, then as now, leaned toward deforestation.
Incidentally, Astarte's Hebrew appellation—Ashtoreth—is mentioned in the Bible only thrice. In carefully patriarchalized incarnations, the Goddess does appear in Scripture as Eve and the Virgin Mary (the one a wily temptress, the other an asensual, passive vehicle); John refers to her as the whore of Babylon, identified with the fornicating "Beast" whom the innocent, nonorgasmic "Lamb" will defeat in the battle that climaxes history. But the mouthpieces of patriarchy were far too freaked out by her, by her openness, her variability, her magic and carnality, to so much as write down her name. Thus, they substituted her husband, her baal, realizing, too, that only to a male divinity could the alleged sacrifice of babies be convincingly attributed.

Lest it be misconstrued here that those that stretched and yawned in the underground niche had some historic ax to grind, it should be established that they were . . . well, agents of reality, not scholars or proselytizers, and hardly would have bothered, even were they able, to reel off names of goddesses as if announcing the lineup of a soccer team. Yet, while they undoubtedly would have been less loquacious about it, they would willingly have revealed to Ellen Cherry the true character of Jezebel's transgressions. To wit: her misdeed was her devotion to Astarte. Because that devotion was contagious (being an instinctive human reflex), because it weakened the grip of the Yahweh cult, she was slandered, framed, and finally murdered.
When the moment arrived, Jezebel was thoroughly aware that she was to be assassinated. She put up her ergot-black hair, donned her tiara, rouged her cheeks and lips, applied kohl to the lids of her huge Phoenician eyes, and went to face her killer with the style, dignity, and grace befitting a reigning queen. So much for painted hussies.
The dog-sucked bones of Jezebel may be the skeleton that bangs its knobs in the closet of our race.
Why wasn't Ellen Cherry aware of all this? Why wasn't the mass of humankind aware of it? Because veils of ignorance, disinformation, and illusion separate us from that which is imperative to our understanding of our evolutionary journey, shield us from the Mystery that is central to being.
The first of those veils conceals the repression of the Goddess, masks the sexual face of the planet, drapes the ancient foundation stone of erotic terror that props up modern man's religion.
But, listen now. If Painted Stick and Conch Shell are permitted to leave the cave where they've been sleeping—and what stands in their path but a spoon, a smelly old sock, and a can of beans?—Salome might dance in the Temple again. And if nobody stops Salome from dancing, that first veil may one day soon be dropping.

the second veil
~
Why is it," Boomer asked, "that beer goes to your head faster in the daytime than it does after dark?"
The man to whom he had addressed the question tugged at his scraggly beard, nodded, said nothing.
"It's a fact," Boomer went on. "I can drink triple after sundown what I can hold in the afternoon. You notice that, too?"
Ellen Cherry was in a Speedy Wash doing their laundry. From now on, she insisted, Boomer would go forth into the world attired in the freshest, most sanitary footwear that detergent and hot water could provide. Should ever she break that vow, he would have only to remind her of the sock he'd left in the cave the previous day, the one whose foulness was offending, they half- kiddingly suspected, some chthonian spirit creature whose hospitality they had violated after it stood guard over their marvelous fuck. While she watched the stockings and underwear flap and churn, dive and surface in the suds, directing her eye game through the porthole in the washer door, Boomer had repaired to a tavern across the street.
"It's a common phenomenon," Boomer said, "but I've never heard it explained on the education channel or anywheres. How 'bout you?"
There were only three people at the bar: Boomer, the man to his left, and the man to his left. Boomer's neighbor was large and seedy looking, shirted in wrinkled plaid flannel that gave the impression it had been repeatedly run over by farm machinery. His beard might have endured an identical ordeal. He nodded at Boomer but did not speak. His pal, obscured from Boomer's view by the first man's bulk, stared straight ahead. The bartender, an elderly woman, was at the far end, assiduously polishing, inspecting, and repolishing cheap glassware, as if the Queen of England and her entourage were due by any moment for a round of brews. From its lonesome perch, an unwatched TV set nicked frizzy pictures of a soap-opera character weeping for her boyfriend who had been dispatched to help keep peace in the Middle East. The girl on the show was wondering why the Arabs and the Jews couldn't learn to live in harmony.

Boomer, like most Americans, had wondered about that himself once or twice. Today he was wondering about something else. "Must have something to do with light. The alcohol refracts the sunlight somehow, causing a reaction in the brain. Bang! Right behind the eyes."
Still the big man was reticent. Boomer leaned toward him.
"Of course, the effect might be different up here in the Rockies for all I know. Altitude. I understand that peacocks can't squawk above five thousand feet. Altitude makes 'em mute as doorknobs. I'm assuming that doorknobs are mute. They're widely acknowledged to be deaf. Regular little Helen Kellers." Boomer flashed an understanding grin. "Say, maybe that's your problem." Placing his mouth close to the fellow's ear, he screamed, "Annie Sullivan calling!", confident that the man would recognize the name of the therapist who taught Ms. Keller to speak.
With one slow but unavoidable paw, the man flung Boomer from the bar stool. As he struggled to right himself, brushing spilled beer from the palm fronds on his aloha shirt, Boomer exclaimed, "If God didn't prefer for us to drink at night, he wouldn't have made neon! Am I right or wrong? And that is not a rhetorical question."
They exchanged grazing blows, grappled, clinched, and fell to the floor, Boomer on the bottom. Boomer had just linked his fingers around the man's arboreal throat—which had yet to produce a peep—and was commencing to squeeze when Ellen Cherry marched in, swatted them both with her loaded laundry bag, and pulled them apart. The third man slipped off his stool as if inclined to interfere, but a newly washed pink lace brassiere tumbled, A cup over A cup, from the laundry bag and landed at his shoes. He backed away from it like a vampire from a garlic bulb.
Ellen Cherry retrieved her undergarment, assisted the combatants to their feet, and pushed Boomer toward the exit. "Gentlemen, I apologize," she said. "My husband is a complete idiot." They nodded. "But you've got to admit, he's a hill of fun."
As the couple was backing out the door, the big man at last broke his silence. In a hoarse whisper, he croaked, "I kicked your ass."
Boomer whirled, shaking an angry fist at his opponent. "You never kicked nothin', Dumbo! You use steroids! You've been disqualified!"
With a yank that could have ripped the beak off a toucan, Ellen Cherry snatched him into the street. A full foot of snow remained in the village gutters. When they saw the blaze in Ellen Cherry's face, each little compressed crystal in

the drift whimpered with anxiety. "Where, oh where, will we be come August?" they cried in unison.
Ellen Cherry had a question of her own. "Goddamn it, Boomer!" she swore. "Are you going to be pulling these stunts in New York City?"
Inside the tavern, normalcy returned. On television, a jilted lover was sobbing; on the jukebox, a jilted lover was crooning; on a beer glass, a flyspeck was disintegrating; on the ceiling, a Marlboro cumulus was gathering; on wire racks, beef jerky was moldering, and on bar stools, the two patrons were frescoing their tonsils with the Bavarian brush. They drank as one.
"You know," said the smaller man, rimming his Coors can with an index finger, "that asshole was right."
"Whaddya mean?"
"Brew treats you different in the day than it does at night."
"Maybe some people."
"Makes you sleepy. Makes you see stuff."
Habitually, the big man's laugh so resembled choking that he couldn't
watch "Hee Haw" in public without some stranger trying the Heimlich maneuver on him. When his derisive chortle had finally humped its way through the mucilaginous layers that webbed his throat, he added, "See stuff," as if repeating his friend's remark was enough to refute it.
"My sister called me this morning. Now, I've knowed her to put down near as many brewskies as me and you. And you'd need a damn Breathalyzer machine to know she hadn't been sipping Bosco. I'm talking night drinking. Well, this morning, about noon, she called from way over near Pocatello, where they been living. She'd had a couple already. And she seen stuff."
"Stuff?"
"You know. Things."
"There's things all around us, Mike. Every damn place you look, there's
things. Things on that fool's shirt whose ass I kicked. Whud your sis see—things from outer space?"
"They was regular things, ordinary little usual things. You're missing the damn point. It was morning, and she'd had, the most, four beers, and she was driving along and thought she saw this stuff walking the side of the road. That's all."
The big man shook his big head slowly from side to side. He was quiet for so long one might have imagined that Anne Sullivan, indeed, would have been required to restore his powers of speech. Eventually, he gave his whiskers a sort

of snappy tug and asked, "What kind of stuff walking the side of the road?" "Let's jest forget it." Mike summoned the bartender from her jihad on
flyspecks, ordered another round of Coors, and offered the opinion that Uncle Sam ought to just wade in and take the oil fields away from the Arabs and be done with it. "Not that I favor the Jews over the Arabs, they're both lower than the tits on a sow, far as I'm concerned. But we ought to stop the terrorism and take the damn oil."
Mike really didn't want to discuss foreign policy, but how could he sit there and tell anybody that his sister had seen a seashell that morning walking alongside a country road? And a fork or a spoon. And a red stick and a sock. A sock, for Christ's sake! And what looked like a can of beans.
~
There are landscapes in which we feel above us not sky but space. Something larger, deeper than sky is sensed, is seen, although in such settings the sky itself is invariably immense. There is a place between the cerebrum and the stars where sky stops and space commences, and should we find ourselves on a particular prairie or mountaintop at a particular hour (the wispiest little pasta of cloud can spoil the effect), our relationship with sky thins and loosens while our connection to space becomes as solid as bone.
Near that raised stitchery on the map where the quilt scraps of Idaho, Utah, and Wyoming are sewn together, Can o' Beans rested in the twilight, taking in, and being taken in by, an overflowing vault that was not so much sky as space.
It was the end of their first day's journey but also the beginning of their first night's journey. Following the events of the morning—the tipsy woman who almost wrecked her pickup truck when she spotted them along the highway, the hunters who fired at them (thinking them rabbits or what?) not long after they moved away from the road and into the countryside—Painted Stick and Conch Shell had decided to take Can o' Beans's original advice, which had been to travel by night. Painted Stick was naive even to consider that their band of objects might, with impunity, move across America in broad daylight. Welcome to the modern world, Painted Stick.
Having spent the afternoon hiding in a tiny arroyo, they would soon be under way again, and now Can o' Beans stood on the gully's lip, looking past a darkening sky into the dominions of stillness and grace. With a serene, if tinny,

shiver, he/she centered him/herself at that spatial crossroads where Intimacy and Elsewhere intersect, and reviewed from a philosophical vantage, the strange situation in which he/she found him/herself.
~
Conch Shell had been first out of the niche. She had dropped in such a manner that she landed on the hard tip of her spire, thereby avoiding any cracking or chipping of her body or lips. For a second, she had stuck there in the cave floor's soil, balanced upright on her spire. Then, slowly, she had fallen over to rest on the low ridges of her body whorls. She had lain like an odalisque, lounging upon her whorled side, affording an unobstructed and, perhaps, immodest view of her tannish outer lip, her creamy inner lip, and the heavenly pinks of her opening, her aperture.
To Can o' Beans and Dirty Sock, who had been expecting something scaly and wired, the pink glow of Conch Shell was heavenly indeed. Can o' Beans thought she might have been the most lovely thing he/she had ever seen. He/she issued a sigh that spun every single bean in his/her sauce. Dirty Sock whistled in the style of a construction worker and called, "Hey now, hey now, foxy lady!" or something like that.
As for Spoon, she registered such a pang of jealousy that it very nearly turned her as green as if she had spent a night in mayonnaise.
The conch shell is the voice of Buddha, the birth-bed of Aphrodite, the horn that drives away all demons and draws lost mariners home from the sea. Colored by the moon, shaped by the primal geometry, it is the original dreamboat, the sacred submarine that carries fertility to its rendezvous with poetry.
Shaped by the primal geometry? No, the conch shell is primal geometry. Its perfect logarithmic spiral coils from left to right around an axis of fundamental truth. A house exuded by the dreams of its inhabitant, it is the finest example of the architecture of imagination, the logic of desire.
A calcified womb, a self-propelled nest, the conch shell outlasts its tenant, its builder, to go on alone, reminding the world's forgetful of their watery sexuality.
Mermaid's tongue. Milkmaid's ulcer. Courtesan's powder box. Ballerina's musk. With its marvelous pinkness, the glow from Conch Shell's long, smooth,

folded aperture saturated the cave. It was a bonbon pink, a tropical pink; above all, a feminine pink. The tint it cast was that of a vagina blowing bubble gum.
As the three forgotten articles were admiring Conch Shell, and puzzling how she came to be in that dry place, Painted Stick flew out of the nook and gave them each a fright. Conch Shell had dropped as elegantly as a parachutist. Painted Stick, on the other hand, leapt with reckless abandon—so reckless, in fact, that he landed on top of her.
No harm was done her, for he hit her backside, which was as rough as her front was slick. Hardly a puny periwinkle, Conch Shell weighed a full five pounds and measured eleven and a half inches from apex to lip curl. Her spire was spiked in the manner of a mace, and the whorls that ribbed her bulk were thick and tough. It was almost as if she were naked in front, around the pinks and creams of her aperture, yet protected elsewhere by a tan suit of armor that would have made a knight rattle with envy.
Speaking of iron tuxedos, one of the religious billboards passed by the giant turkey had commanded its readers to "Put On the Whole Armor of God." Boomer and Ellen Cherry failed to guess that it was a motto borrowed from the Crusaders, although Ellen Cherry eventually was to learn that it was the Crusaders, those barbarous European knights, who, in the sweet name of Jesus, had done as much as anyone or anything to lock the Middle East in the lapidary machine of hellfire in which for all these centuries it has been painfully tumbling.
Painted Stick bounced off Conch Shell's armor plate, then rolled to within several feet of our abandoned trio. "Greetings," he said, at no loss for breath or words (although, obviously, objects do not, in the animate sense, breathe or speak). "Greetings. I assume from the likes of you that you were not responsible for the great fucking that summoned us from our rest."
Spoon blushed and Dirty Sock chuckled. "There were humans here," said Can o' Beans. "They've run away."
"How unfortunate," said Painted Stick.
"Why's that?" asked Dirty Sock, who was rather pleased to be free of Boomer's twisted foot.
"They would have taken us to where we must be going," Painted Stick replied.
"Don't bet on it," said Dirty Sock.

It turned out that Painted Stick had assumed that Boomer and Ellen Cherry were a priest and priestess of Astarte, from the way they had addressed Jezebel while making love. Painted Stick had had no intentions of walking across America. He thought that he and Conch Shell would be carried to their destination in the arms of the Goddess's adorers, as had been their experience in former times.
When, on the following morning, against Can o' Beans's warnings, Painted Stick had led the group toward the roadway, the can had confided to the seashell, "I'm afraid Mr. Stick is naive."
"Not naive," Conch Shell had corrected him. "He simply has not been taught to fear the things you fear."
~
In her hysteria, Mike's beery sister had described the stick as "red." Actually, its original coating was a strong, rusty umber, but the passing centuries had sapped the mineral pigment of its oxidic potency, leaving it a flat, dull rose, like a dance hall memory, and so thin that the original wood showed through it like the night sky through a canopy of fishnet. In addition, there were five blue bands— four narrow, one broad—around the stick's middle, although these, too, were badly faded. Painted Stick's top end was notched, as if someone had tried to carve little horns there, little bull's horns. These crescent-shaped nubs once had been gilded, and flecks of gold leaf still clung to them, like spinach to teeth. His length was under a yard, but he was long enough to have been a cane for a blind jockey or a baton for a conductor with an overbearing personality. In circumference, he equaled a mature carrot, although he was not tapered in any direction.
As the World Tree stands, so stands its child, the sanctified stick. Shamans climb it. Maidens dance around it. Men use it for pointing. It points to thunder, to comets, to the migrating herds. Sometimes it points to you.
Once there was a man who carried a stick that he swirled in a stream until a hair clung to it. The direction in which the hair pointed led to satisfaction. But who deserved credit, the hair or the stick?
Stick is the magic penis. When waved, it sows sons and daughters. Stick is also lethal. It cracks a skull nicely.
Guns have been called "magic sticks," but guns are only half magical: they

take life but can't create it.
If a stick is twirled under proper conditions, it makes fire. If rubbed against
another stick, it makes fire. Once a stick is painted, however, it is assigned to other duties.
Sigmund Freud observed children rolling hoops with sticks. Freud made notes in his journal.
T.S. Eliot wrote:
Crossed staves in a field Behaving as the wind behaves.
In a deck of cards, there are four suits: diamonds, spades, hearts, and sticks. The card stick was both the rod of the peasant and the wand of the magi. Whip the donkey. Stir the moon.
Like a sword, or a phallus, it feels quite good to hold a stick in your hands. If held correctly, with maximum consciousness (and that is difficult to do), the stick may suddenly flower.
There is a sense in which a painted stick is a stick in bloom. This stick points to the hidden face of God. Sometimes it points to you.
~
Later, when Dirty Sock asked Painted Stick what he did, meaning exactly what people mean when they ask at a cocktail party, "What do you do?", Painted Stick answered that he was a navigational instrument.
Although his description of his function was an understatement, a simplification, it wasn't precisely a lie. Dirty Sock accepted it at face value, and, up to a point, Can o' Beans did, too. After all, despite his errors of judgment in some areas, it couldn't be denied that Painted Stick marched them unwaveringly eastward.
Almost as abruptly as they had presented themselves, Conch Shell and Painted Stick had asked to be excused.
"Forgive us if we are rude," said Conch Shell, "but we have lain in this foreign place for a very long time."
"And unless the globe has shrunk while we lay in our trance," added Painted Stick, "we have a very long journey ahead of us."

"Where is it that you're headin?" asked Dirty Sock.
"Why, to the Holy City," said the stick, as if it had been a silly question. "That would be the Vatican," whispered Spoon, who had spent most of her
life in the jelly bowl of a strict Catholic household. Ellen Cherry had acquired her at a diocesan rummage sale.
Dirty Sock nodded in agreement, but the can shook its contents, slosh gurgle, as if it weren't so sure.
"Without human assistance," Painted Stick complained, "we probably shall arrive too late."
"Oh, you must not worry so," said the seashell. "I feel in my whorls that we've time to spare." Then, before Can o' Beans could spit out any of the many questions burning his/her sauce, Conch Shell inquired, in her compassionate manner, about the others' circumstances and how they happened to be in that desolate den. After they had given their account of the aborted picnic, she asked, "What will happen to you now?"
Spoon and Dirty Sock looked blank, but Can o' Beans, who had obviously thought about it, replied, "Well, it's fairly dry in here. That's to our advantage. But, unless some human stumbles upon us and takes us away ..."
"Who'd want just one solitary ol' sock?" asked the soiled one, suddenly morose.
"Unless a peg-legged human stumbles upon us and takes us away, we'll gradually pay our dues to the elements. Miss Spoon should fare okay. She'll tarnish, of course, she'll turn as black as Aretha Franklin, but otherwise, she'll be healthy and whole."
"No, I won't," said Spoon, with a sob in her voice. "What good is a spoon that nobody eats with? To be eaten with is—is all that I exist for." Through her tears, her private longings had unintentionally surfaced. The others could sense the extreme sensual pleasure this dainty utensil had enjoyed in the jelly, in the ice cream—and in the mouth; forever being slipped into soft, sweet substances, then licked and sucked affectionately and repeatedly, followed by a bath in warm, bubbly dishwater.
"As for me," Can o' Beans went on, "I suppose that as the years go by, my label will peel off, and slowly I'll rust. Or, my contents could ferment and cause me to burst. But I'm optimistic. Some adventurous lad will find me and carry me off to his hungry scoutmaster." He/she paused. "Poor Mr. Sock, though. He can only look forward to dry rot and disintegration."
Conch Shell made as if to comfort the distressed stocking, but Painted Stick

stopped her. "We wish you the fortune that we wish for ourselves," he said, "but we really must depart now. Matters of mighty importance are about to transpire, and our presence is required."
"At least, we would like to think so," said Conch Shell. Reluctantly, she followed the wooden relic out of the cave. "Have faith," she had called back. "We shall petition the elements in your behalf."
They were alone then, the three of them, really alone. And as silent and useless as Mozart's inkblots.
Within an hour, the exotic objects had returned.
"Greetings again," said Conch Shell. "We have come to beseech you . . ." "We have come to invite you," Painted Stick corrected her.
"... to accompany us."
"How far?" asked Can o' Beans.
"As far as we are going," replied Conch Shell.
"Except into the Holy of Holies," said the stick. "You cannot follow us in
there."
"There is no guarantee that we shall be going into the inner sanctum,
either," said Conch Shell.
"What has happened twice will happen three times," argued Painted Stick,
quoting an ancient law.
The bean tin was obviously a bit bewildered; its companions even more so. "You are natives here," said Painted Stick. "Without priestesses to transport
us, and so far I have seen none, you can provide valuable assistance in the crossing of this broad land."
"Besides," said the pretty univalve, "having frightened away the lovers, it is our fault that you are stranded here. We cannot in good conscience desert you. I am positive that you shall be good company."
"Hey, that's a swell deal!" exclaimed Dirty Sock.
Spoon glanced hopefully at Can o' Beans.
"Miss Spoon here thinks that you are off to visit Vatican City," said Can o'
Beans. "I have a feeling that it's not that simple. You just don't strike me as papist types."
In human terms, it would be said that the foreigners smiled. And it occurred to Spoon that Can o' Beans was quite right.
"So," continued the bean tin, "two questions. Where, precisely, are you going? And how do you propose that we accompany you? You know that we

lack the power of locomotion."
"Our destination is Jerusalem," said Painted Stick. "I thought we made that
clear."
"As for your locomotion," Conch Shell put in, "we believe that we can
boost your vibrations."
Like all inanimate objects everywhere, the three displaced articles from the
Airstream turkey knew instinctively what the seashell was talking about.
"We need a little while to mull this over," Can o' Beans had said.
"What the hell for?" objected Dirty Sock.
"Please, Mr. Sock," said Can o' Beans, somewhat exasperated.
"Very well," Conch Shell said. "We shall leave you to discuss the matter in
private."
"But do be quick about it," snapped Painted Stick.
Can o' Beans had stopped the pair as they were leaving the cave. "About
this place, Jerusalem," he said. "You might be interested in knowing that there's a lot of strife and unrest there nowadays. In fact, I get the idea that it's a dangerous place to be."
"Oh, dear," said Spoon.
"Yeah. How 'bout that?" asked Dirty Sock.
Painted Stick barely paused in his exit. "Jerusalem has always been torn by
strife. If the blood in the streets does not reach to my first blue band, then it could not be as dangerous now as it used to be."
To Painted Stick's liking, the election had been fast and favorable: two votes to join in the journey, one abstention. Can o' Beans was far too curious to turn down an opportunity to see more of the world, perilous or not, while the sock couldn't see where he had much to lose: anything was preferable to dry rot. Numb with apprehension, Spoon was incapable of decision. While her companions briefly argued the pros and cons, she daydreamed about chocolate pudding soaking up cream, about the spray from the young Jesuit's trigger-tight mouth, whitecapped inside with eager saliva.
Once informed of the trio's compliance, Painted Stick and Conch Shell immediately began preparations for the frequency-raising ritual. It would require intense effort and concentration on the part of everyone involved.
The inertia of objects is deceptive. The inanimate world appears static, "dead," to humans only because of our neuromuscular chauvinism. We are so

enamored of our own activity range that we blind ourselves to the fact that most of the action in the universe is unfolding outside our range, occurring at speeds so much slower or faster than our own that it is hidden from us as if by a ... a veil.
We regard the objects that polka-dot our daily lives as if they were rigid, totally predictable solids, frozen inferiorly in time and space. Yet, how can we be so sure that we know what things are doing when we aren't looking at them? When our eyesight is inadequate to truly look at them?
For example, here is a can of Van Camp's pork and beans. Familiar? Take a closer look at the label. Forget the ingredients list (including the sugar and corn syrup you may not have guessed this product contains); forget the heating instructions, the declaration of weight (twenty-one ounces or 595 grams, a little heavier than the brain of a horse); forget the modified Old West typeface in which this information is printed, cow-face white and rodeo yellow against a background of bandanna red. Look deeper.
You'll require a magnifying glass, which, incidentally, glass being essentially a liquid, is hardly the passive, inactive object we regard it, either: it just drips and flows at rates we normally fail to register. In any case, the label is paper. When seen close up, it is a rough, tangled bog of wood chips, fragments of hemp, linen fibers, asbestos fibers, wool fibers, and clots of ink, oil, and glue. Each of these substances has its own formal characteristics, and if you look more closely (you must switch to an electronic microscope), if you examine the molecular structure of each, the variety in form—pyramids and rings, spirals and stacks and zigzag chains—is dazzling. And that's the opening act. For the main show, you must look deeper still.
On the atomic and subatomic levels, weird electrical forces are crackling and flaring, and amorphous particles (directly related, remember, to the composition of the bean-can label) are spinning simultaneously forward, backward, sideways, and forever at speeds so uncalculable that expressions such as "arrival," "departure," "duration," and "have a nice day" become meaningless. It is on those levels that "magic" occurs.
The magic performed by Conch Shell and Painted Stick consisted of focusing their own force fields to raise ever so slightly the velocity of the others' electron recoil, to widen by a fraction of a degree the scattering angles of their photons. A quantum jump start, if you will. They had always been capable of movement. Now, after hours of energy exchange, controlled power surges, and meticulous synchronizations, they were able to move at rates detectible to human

measure, at rates that allowed them to depart the cave as absolutely, if (from an anthropomorphic perspective) not quite as efficiently, as Boomer Petway and Ellen Cherry Charles.
~
So, Can o' Beans stood then on the rim of the little arroyo, watching the stars drop, one by one, into view, like baked beans spilling over the side of a camp plate, and reflecting upon the day's adventures and upon the relative freedom that the relative increase in relative locomotion had granted.
The bean can was exhilarated, to be sure, yet its initial experience with the animate brand of mobility succeeded in enlarging its appreciation of its former condition of arrest. There was a lot to be said for stillness (relative stillness), Can o' Beans conceded, a statics characterized not so much by an absence of ability to move as by a serene balance of forces. It is because inanimate objects, in their stillness, turn back upon themselves that they are exactly identical with themselves. The frantic confusions of the organic realm wash over them. The universe moves around them. The Divine lines up with them. Their solidity may be spiritual as well as physical. In the immobile whirls the infinite.
A gentle nudge from Conch Shell's spire punctured the bean can's musings. "We must depart now," Conch Shell said. "Painted Stick has taken his fix on the guide star."
"Hey!" yelled Dirty Sock. "Round 'em up and head 'em out!" He was certainly enjoying himself.
Spoon popped up tentatively over the gully edge. She was nervous but under control.
Very well, thought Can o' Beans. On to Jerusalem. The Holy City might sizzle with contention, quaver with explosions, and buzz with bullets, but at least the chances of his/her being opened and consumed were appreciably less than in Ellen Cherry's cupboard. Jerusalem, for the moment, was the capital of a Jewish state, and while the actual amount of pork in a bean can's contents was minimal, as everyone knows, it was sufficient to hold the most ravenous rabbi at bay.
Thus, it was with general good humor and optimism that the band of objects set off into the American night. Before the sun would next strike their various surfaces, however, they would face a terrible ordeal.

Under cover of darkness, they scooted, toddled, and bounced along, slowly but steadily gaining altitude as they followed the creek into the foothills. Although unaccustomed to the rigors of locomotion, Spoon, Dirty Sock, and Can o' Beans held up reasonably well. Nevertheless, when the group paused for a rest about midnight, the three were more than thankful to set themselves down.
"Damn, good buddies!" said Dirty Sock. "This locomotin' is neat. But I tell ya, I'm feeling pretty spaced out."
"Pardon me for saying so, Mr. Sock," Can o' Beans counseled, "but you really ought not to use that slang."
The stocking was stung. "What's the damn matter with it?" he asked.
"Well," said Can o' Beans, a bit hesitantly, "imprecise speech is one of the major causes of mental illness in human beings."
"Huh?"
"Quite so. The inability to correctly perceive reality is often responsible for humans' insane behavior. And every time they substitute an all-purpose, sloppy slang word for the words that would accurately describe an emotion or a situation, it lowers their reality orientations, pushes them farther from shore, out onto the foggy waters of alienation and confusion."
The manner in which the others were regarding him/her made Can o' Beans feel compelled to continue. "The word neat, for example, has precise connotations. Neat means tidy, orderly, well-groomed. It's a valuable tool for describing the appearance of a room, a hairdo, or a manuscript. When it's generically and inappropriately applied, though, as it is in its slang aspect, it only obscures the true nature of the thing or feeling that it's supposed to be representing. It's turned into a sponge word. You can wring meanings out of it by the bucketful—and never know which one is right. When a person says a movie is 'neat,' does he mean that it's funny or tragic or thrilling or romantic, does he mean that the cinematography is beautiful, the acting heartfelt, the script intelligent, the direction deft, or the leading lady has cleavage to die for? Slang possesses an economy, an immediacy that's attractive, all right, but it devalues experience by standardizing and fuzzing it. It hangs between humanity and the real world like a ... a veil. Slang just makes people more stupid, that's all, and stupidity eventually makes them crazy. I'd hate to ever see that kind of craziness rub off onto objects."
Spoon, who, like the bean can, had caught a few movies on television, appreciated the analogy. Painted Stick and Conch Shell didn't even know what a movie was. Among them, only Dirty Sock had ever been inside a movie theater,

and his view had been limited to the gum on the bottoms of the seats. Dirty Sock was quiet for a while. One might even say that he was pensive. Then he grumbled something about every damn one of them knowing exactly what he meant when he said locomoting was "neat" and that he didn't see any need to go into a lot of boring detail about it. Folding his saggy elastic over his crusty heel, he curled up to rest.
Unable to contain herself, Spoon turned to the stick and the shell and gushed, "Wasn't that wonderful?! Can o' Beans is as wise as Solomon."
The foreigners looked at each other. "Did you hear that?" asked Conch Shell. "King Solomon still has a reputation for wisdom."
"Why, yes," said Spoon, her frail voice propped up by sincerity. "Solomon was the wisest man who ever lived."
Conch Shell turned politely away, but Painted Stick laughed right in Spoon's ladle.
Believing that she had made some kind of faux pas, Spoon blushed and withdrew. Can o' Beans, on the other hand, moved closer to the foreigners. "Excuse me, please," he/she said, "but you seem to suggest that Solomon was less wise than his considerable fame maintains."
"In truth, we do," said Painted Stick. "Solomon. Ha-ha."
Conch Shell was more specific. "King Solomon was as vain and prideful a man as ever lived. His sole purpose in life was the elevation of his own name, the perpetuation of his own esteem. He enslaved his subjects and exploited all around him so as to erect monuments to his personal glory. Surely you cannot consider this to be wisdom."
"But he did have plenty of glory, didn't he?" asked Can o' Beans, remembering tales of fabulous grandeur.
"Israel, under Solomon, was impoverished and backward. Its 'cities' were mud villages. Even Jerusalem failed to impress Europeans and Arabians who visited there."
"But the Temple," protested Can o' Beans. "What about Solomon's Temple?"
"Solomon's Temple," repeated Painted Stick. "Ha-ha."
"First, it was not Solomon's Temple," Conch Shell explained. "It was Hiram's Temple, Hiram of Tyre; Tyre being a great city of Phoenicia. The Temple bore Solomon's name, 'tis true, but Hiram erected it, furnished it, decorated it, influenced the activities therein. Although the Temple sat in Jerusalem, it was actually Phoenician."

"As are we," Painted Stick chimed in.
"Yes," admitted Conch Shell. "Many from Phoenicia served Israel: Hiram, Jezebel, countless priests and priestesses of our Goddess, and, in a minimal way, we, your humble guests."
Up to that point, the exotic pair had been quite vague about its reasons for traveling to Jerusalem, and the beans in the can were practically farting with curiosity. Seizing the opportunity, Can o' Beans moved even closer. "Wait a second," he/she said. "Do you mean to tell me ..."
But they meant to tell nothing, at least not at the moment. A cloud bank pulled away from the moon, like a ... a veil from a face, and in the sudden rush of pale, almost tinkly, spring moonlight, Painted Stick spun on his end, sending up a shower of pine needles, like splinters of blue glass. His little horns turned and twitched, as if he were a tuning fork varying the pitch of the stars. Like the heart of a great animal bursting open, Conch Shell released a vapor of pinkness that, as it evaporated in the moonlight, smelled both of honey and the sea.
"We must continue now," the shell said tenderly.
Can o' Beans roused his/her friends, and soon they were off again, scooting, toddling, and bouncing along through the soul-testing, teeth-chattering forests of the night.
For another three hours, they climbed rocks, scaled logs, challenged shadows, and waded through owl-hoots so raw with enigma they would have sent half of urban America grabbing for the Valium bottle. Then, they paused again. It was obvious that Spoon, Dirty Sock, and Can o' Beans were exhausted. Painted Stick announced that under the circumstances they would retire early, a good three hours before dawn, and hope to make up for lost time on the following night.
They had stopped in a flat place, upholstered with moss. It was secluded there, in the blackest part of the forest, although moon rays were strewn through the pine boughs like rolls of toilet paper hurled from the upstairs windows of some primeval fraternity house. The castaways from the big turkey (which was parked at that moment under unfiltered moonbeams, many miles to the east) found it an agreeable resort. Quickly, they began to sink into a kind of sleep, each at the base of a separate tree trunk.
"Good night, Miss Spoon. Good night, Mr. Sock."
"Good night, you two," said Spoon. "I'll be mentioning you both in my prayers."

"Yeah," mumbled Dirty Sock, who was still disgruntled over the lecture he had received on his slang.
Can o' Beans wanted to ask Spoon just to whom she thought she was praying, but he yawned instead and let it slide. He didn't even hear Painted Stick and Conch Shell slip off into the woods in search of a larger clearing, there to communicate with the constellations.
An hour, more or less, had gone by when the bean tin was jolted into consciousness by a horrible screaming.
*
"Help! Help me! Goddamn! Help me!"
It took a moment for Can o' Beans to recognize the voice as Dirty Sock's—
and another moment to actually see the silhouette of the monster.
In the fading moonlight, the creature loomed huge and spiky, like a punk
haircut mutated and vitalized in a nuclear accident.
"Help! Get this motherfucker off me!"
"Oh dear! What is it?" asked Spoon.
"It's a porcupine. It's got hold of Mr. Sock."
Indeed, it had. The thirty-pound rodent had the sock in its mouth and was
greedily chewing the salt out of its fibers, the salt from Boomer Petway's sweat. "Let go of me, you evil bastard! Help!"
"Oh, Can o' Beans, do something! Do something, please!"
With all the clumsy force in its newly heightened mobility, the bean can
threw itself against the porcupine's left front leg. Startled, the animal wobbled for an instant and ceased to chew. It very nearly dropped the sock. Then, having analyzed, in its rodent fashion, the threat presented by its much smaller attacker, it stepped to the side and whacked Can o' Beans a good one with its tail.
The porcupine was surprised, and even mildly pained, when its quills were repulsed by the metal container. Nevertheless, the whack had sent Can o' Beans tumbling into the shadows, and the intruder returned to its gnawing.
"Help! Hit it again! Hit it again!"
Upright now, his/her Van Camp's label scratched and torn by barbs, Can o' Beans thought it futile to strike again. But he/she had an idea. "Hurry, Miss Spoon. Over here. Lean against this log."
"Oh, dear."
It wasn't really a log, merely a fallen pine branch, but Spoon leaned against it as instructed. "I'll try not to hurt you," said Can o' Beans, nudging a pebble into her ladle. Then he/she struggled up onto the branch, steadied him/herself,

sighted the target, and jumped. Zing! The pebble was catapulted at the porcupine: direct hit! Unfortunately, because Spoon's ladle was designed to fire nothing of a larger caliber than a candied strawberry (the kind the old bishop loved to gum), the pebble did the porcupine not much more harm than a deerfly. After three or four more missiles were bounced off its quills, however, it grew annoyed and, to the dismay of the bombardiers, lumbered off into the trees, Dirty Sock hanging from its muzzle like . . . like the slipped veil of a copulating harem girl.
"I'll follow them!" shouted Can o' Beans. "You yell for Mr. Stick."
That proved unnecessary. Having heard the commotion, Painted Stick and Conch Shell had interrupted their celestial enterprises and were even then rushing into the little clearing. "What is the trouble here?" asked the shell.
Her soft voice jackhammered with sobs, rubberized with hysteria, Spoon babbled a largely incoherent account of the emergency, but Painted Stick eventually got the picture. He took off in pursuit. Conch Shell and Spoon followed after.
By that time, the porcupine had arrived at the creekbank. It stood there, absentmindedly chewing, too narcotically blissed by the salty delicacy in its chops to invest much effort in either battle or retreat. Can o' Beans caught up with the animal but had no idea what to do next.
End over end, like a Chinese acrobat, Painted Stick flipped furiously along the forest path. He flipped directly up to the porcupine, striking its nose with a resounding swack. The animal squealed with pain, dropped the sock, and wheeled dizzily around in two complete circles before scrambling up the trunk of the nearest tall conifer.
"Heeelp!" screamed Dirty Sock, from far away, and to his/her horror, Can o' Beans realized that the porcupine's thrashing tail had swept the sock into the white waters of the stream.
True, Boomer Petway washed his socks infrequently (aristocrats never have shared the bourgeoisie's infatuation with personal hygiene), but Dirty Sock had been underwater once or twice. It was preferable to a porcupine's mouth. He didn't panic until he realized that the current was carrying him downstream with such speed that he would be back in Idaho by breakfast.
He struggled to surface; the current held him under. He was out of control. Reality whistles a different tune underwater. Time and space are wadded up like

old newspaper. There is light underwater, even at night, but it is a far cry from the lights we all know and love.
The light is green and its shine is mean. Shark light. Fecal light. The light by which the Reaper reads his list. The light our antecedents crawled out of the sloughs to get away from. A light filtered through old cabbage brains.
The torrent spit up Dirty Sock long enough for him to yell for aid, then sucked him down again into its rolling green barrel of funless foam monkeys.
This is it, thought the sock. My sock life is over. I'll turn into muck at the bottom of this cold damn river and never see that seashell pussy again. He would have welcomed the funky confines of Boomer Petway's dresser drawer. He would have embraced that odd-angled lump of a foot, shielded it from spilled beer and the stray welding spark. Dry-rotting in the cave with that know-it-all bean can would have been better by a damn sight than this.
Hope springs eternal and all that, yet isn't it a fact that when we give up and quit hoping; genuinely, sincerely quit hoping, things usually change for the better? Zen masters say that when we become convinced that the human situation is hopeless, we approach serenity, the ideal state of mind Dirty Sock wasn't exactly Zen, there was just too much polyester in him for that, but he had pretty much resigned himself to a watery grave when the rapids temporarily ran out of gradient. His flaccid, battered form was discharged into a quiet pool, where he swirled for a moment, putting the fear of the polymer gods into a couple of trout, before hooking himself on a driftwood snag.
He tried to call out, but nothing escaped him save a bubble.
It took them more than an hour, bumbling along the creekbank, to locate him. Conch Shell swam out to him and revived him with her pink touch but failed to free him from the snag. She swam back to shore, picked up Painted Stick, and ferried him out to the snag. The stick pried the sock loose, and the two of them rode to safety on board the seashell.
Dirty Sock's threads had been bruised and, in some cases, broken by porcupine teeth. Worse, he was sopping wet, far too soaked to walk, and in the predawn chill a brilliant and biting scum of frost was collecting on his fibers.
Rather desperately, they were wondering what to do when Spoon spied a flickering glow off a ways through the trees. Having no better alternative, they made for it, Painted Stick dragging Dirty Sock from his nubs. Within a hundred yards, they came upon a small public campground, where in addition to a teal- colored Volvo sedan and one of those fancy many-zippered tents from the R.E.I,

backpackers' boutique in Seattle, they found a cheerful campfire, snapping and smoking in the prime of its life.
Although the fire had been recently kindled, the campers were nowhere to be seen. From inside the tent, however, there issued a murmur of sleepy voices.
"We'll have to risk it," the objects agreed. While Spoon watched the tent, Painted Stick pulled the waterlogged stocking to a flat rock beside the fire and laid it out. It occurred to Can o' Beans that if he/she were to roll upon Dirty Sock, it would press some of the water out of him and permit him to dry faster. Although the sock was less than charmed by the arrangement, it was too weak to protest. Back and forth rolled the bean can, back and forth, while rivulets webbed the rock and the frost on the synthetic fibers turned slowly to steam.
"But hon-eee," whined an ostensibly male voice from inside the tent, "I don't want instant coffee, even if it is cappuccino."
"Imported. Quite as good as fresh."
"I want, just this once, coffee boiled in the pot over an open fire." "He-man coffee, Dabney?"
"It needn't have gender."
"Hemingway coffee?"
"Indeed."
The woman's voice was high-pitched, nasal, pinched, as if strained through
the eyelets in Jane Austen's corset. "Hemingway would have caught his limit by now."
"Before daybreak? Faddle! Hemingway had excellent values. He believed in the good breakfast. In the good stiff coffee."
"Normally you would pour such coffee down the drain."
"This isn't 'normally,' Heather. This is our adventure."
"Very well. But if your sense of romantic adventure demands that you drink
battery acid ..."
The man sniffed. His sniff fluttered the wall of the tent. "This is not battery
acid material. This is Starbuck's Colombia-New Guinea blend."
"It will be industrial waste when you're through boiling it. By that, I mean
if you wish your he-man, fisherman coffee, you are going to have to prepare it yourself."
"Heather," the man whined. "I built the fire." Even as he protested, however, he was unzipping the tent's front flaps.
By rapping her ornate handle against a metal tent stake, Spoon sounded the alarm. Deftly, like a Pamplona bull hooking a drunken tourist, Painted Stick

hooked Dirty Sock and began pulling him toward the bushes. Conch Shell pushed from behind. As for Can o' Beans, he/she had just been rolling off the flattened sock at the instant that the stick jerked it up and away. The sudden yank sent Can o' Beans rolling right off the rock and into the path of the approaching camper.
"Heather! There's something out here!"
"Oh, my God!" gasped the woman. Visions of Ted Bundy, of hairy Charlie Manson, stretched in her mind like blood-drenched elastic.
The man forced a deep chuckle. "It's only animals, dear," he called. "Some small animals attracted to my fire."
"They could be rabid," snapped the woman. Then, abruptly conscious of her hysteria, she added in a steadier tone, "Toss some pebbles at them, dear."
In teal flannel pajamas, over which he had Velcroed a raspberry nylon parka, the man was having a look around. He was not old, probably between thirty-five and forty, yet he hobbled like a nursing-home lecher in his spanking new Timberland brogans. Although chunky spectacles rode his sharp little nose like the wheels of a chariot overrunning an emaciated fourth-century Christian, he still appeared handicapped by myopia. He had the look of a midlevel academic, perhaps one of those literary moles who compound their pallor in stuffy rooms, stroking the musaceous nuances of E. M. Forster; or else the editor of an urban weekly newspaper that fills its pages with wine-shop and gallery advertisements and earnest evaluation of the anal-retentive sawings of European string quartets. Only a day or two before, that same man had glared at Boomer Petway with such haughty disdain, as the Volvo passed by the giant turkey, that Boomer turned to Ellen Cherry and asked, "Do you think there's males that suffer from penis envy?"
"Heather," called the man. His bugged eyes had discovered an artifact in front of the campfire.
"Yes, dear."
"Did you bring pork and beans?"
"What?"
"Pork and beans."
Squinting hard, he squatted in the firelight. The Chinese fingers of dawn,
slender and opium stained, were massaging the bruised bottom of the sky, and owl-hoots were beginning to be supplanted by benevolent birdsong and what may have been the sound of the night shift punching off duty at the bugworks.

On the sidelines of a planetary routine that seldom has failed to inspire the poets —those among them who'd been awake and sober at that hour—the man made as if to pick up Can o' Beans, then thought better of it and prodded him/her with a length of store-bought kindling.
In the underbrush, Spoon emitted a tiny squeal. "Oh, what can we do?" she asked.
"Do not move," ordered Painted Stick.
The woman emerged from the tent. She looked remarkably like her husband, down to the flannels and the aquarium-weight eyeglasses. She may have been an inch taller than he, which meant that she still would have had to stand on a peach basket to curry the ears of a Shetland pony. Aggressively as a TV cop, she strode up to the helpless bean tin.
"You're asking me if I brought pork and beans? Dabney, I shopped for this excursion for over a week—"
"For more than a week."
"Excuse me. More than a week. Are you aware of the money I spent?" "So these aren't our pork and beans?"
"Really, Dabney!" The woman looked as if she had just gotten a whiff of a
Calcutta latrine. Then, she softened and smirked. "For breakfast I'm preparing orange crepes. With Cointreau. But not until you've had your go at the fish."
"Agreed." He positioned a small log on the fire. "I'll dress and get cracking." As he crawled into the tent, he called, "Oh, honey. You won't forget the linen tablecloth?"
"Have I ever?"
Purposefully, the woman snatched up the tin of beans, subjected it to a rather scatological scrutiny, then, with amazing strength, hurled it against a boulder at the edge of the campsite.
*
The canning process was invented in 1809 by a French confectioner named Nicolas Appert. Oui, the simple proletarian vessel that shepherded our Spam from processing plant to dinner dish emerged in Paris, birthplace of so very much genius, so very much chic. Is it inappropriate, then, that a painter, Andy Warhol, had caused the soup can to be the most recognized image in contemporary art? Is it mere coincidence that the most representative Parisian dance is called the cancan? Or that the famed French film festival is held at a place called Cannes? Yes, of course it is, but no matter: there are more tin cans in the world than there are human beings (a hundred billion new ones are

manufactured each year in the U.S. alone), and they trace their beginnings not to some savage simian savanna, as do we, but to the home of Matisse and Baudelaire, of Debussy and Sarah Bernhardt; to the metropole of the muses, the City of Light.
For all of the fizzy artistry that surrounded its birth, however, the can is sturdy, dependable. Incidences of rupture or spoilage are rare. Cans have been opened after five decades to reveal perfectly edible contents, if you fancy potted mutton. If only we could so can our innocence, our sense of wonder, our adolescent libido. Campbell's Cream of Youth. Swanson's Spring Chicken.
Early food cans were handmade from tin and sealed with solder. Today, they're machine-fabricated from pressed steel. The only tin in a modern "tin can" is an internal coating so thin you could read through it. You could read The Tin Drum through it, were you bent in that direction. Tin habitually broadcasts extra electrons, and those superfluous particles create a barrier against acids in the foodstuff that would otherwise corrode the can, slowly weakening it from within, the way political convictions weaken morality and religious convictions weaken the mind.
When Can o' Beans was dashed against the rock, the impact naturally dented his/her steel cylinder. That would have been problem enough, since a deep dent couldn't help but impede equilibrium. Alas, it didn't end there. Because the dent occurred directly over the seam, the seam split. There was an inch-long tear in his/her side, out through which tomato sauce was flowing like blood.
Humming a melody from Prokofiev, the man lugged his fishing tackle, price tags still attached, blithely to the stream. With trepidation, the woman paid a reluctant but necessary visit to the campground privy. As soon as the couple was out of sight, Painted Stick and Conch Shell rushed to rescue Can o' Beans. First, they turned him/her so that the wound was topside up. That stemmed the flow of sauce. Next, they pushed the can—rolling was out of the question— into the underbrush.
Reconnaissance by Conch Shell turned up a well-concealed but soon to be sunlit rockpile. Painted Stick dragged the sock there; then, with the shell's assistance, pushed the can there, as well. Painted Stick may have been having second thoughts about his choice of traveling companions. He was a talismanic device, the sanctified awe-detector of a community of ecstatics, not a nursemaid. It was time for an assessment.

Although confused, tired, perhaps in shock, the old purple foot-snood was out of danger. The holes in its envelope were minute and manageable. A few hours in direct sunlight would draw out the last of the moisture that plagued it. Cleaner, if none the wiser, the sock would persevere.
The vessel of legumes, on the other hand, was in definite peril. Were it to lie in any but the one position—on its side with the seam on top—its juice would leak. If enough of the sauce bled out, the beans inside would congeal into a hard, dry lump. Eventually, bacteria entering the wound would decompose the lump. The crippled container would be full of rattle and rot. Can o' Beans was incapacitated. Further travel was impossible.
What to do? Dirty Sock did nothing. He lay the entire morning as if in a stupor, soaking up sun like a wage slave on the first day of a cut-rate Hawaiian vacation. Can o' Beans was equally silent and still. Never leaving his/her side, Spoon repeatedly smoothed the can's bedraggled paper jacket, as if mending its tatters with the compulsive caresses of her ladle. Conch Shell cast her pink net of oceanic compassion over the lot of them, not that it did them much good, while Painted Stick, anxious to keep an appointment in far Jerusalem, paced to and fro, his little "horns" twitching like feelers. What to do?
The scene was glum, and boring, too. By midafternoon, Can o' Beans had had enough. "I realize that I'll probably have to be left behind," he/she announced. "I can accept that. It's the breaks of the game, that's all. But I can't let you get away, Miss Shell, Mr. Stick, without at least telling me why I was going to where I'm not going.
I've been just bursting, no joke intended, ha-ha, to learn the purpose of this marathon to Jerusalem, and now. . . . What's your background? What's your mission? What am I missing? Leave me in the night but please don't leave me in the dark."
Perhaps they, too, needed a diversion, something to take their minds off the trouble and delay. At any rate, Conch Shell and Painted Stick settled in the disorder of broken rock (it was as if the mountain god had come home drunk and thrown his clothes on the floor) beside the disabled bean can and addressed its curiosity.
"As previously mentioned, we come originally from Phoenicia, a great trading center beside the mild blue sea. Phoenicia was blessed with hills and harbors; a land of lighthouses, cedar groves, and purple dust on the olive fruit. It was divided into two kingdoms, the city-states of Sidon and Tyre—"
"You might be interested in knowing," Can o' Beans interrupted, "that those

two cities still exist. They're in a country that's called Lebanon nowadays." Spoon regarded Can o' Beans adoringly, as if once more overwhelmed by
his/her intelligence.
"Most fucked-up country on earth," mumbled Dirty Sock. "Pardon my
French." He hadn't moved a thread. Nobody realized that he'd been listening. "A long civil war's been raging there," Can o' Beans explained. "Moslems
fighting Jews, as usual, but also Moslems fighting Christians. And Moslems fighting Moslems. Everybody fighting everybody, including themselves. It's crazy. Murderous and crazy."
"That is sometimes the way it is with human beings," Conch Shell said.
"Absolutely," agreed Can o' Beans. "But human beings in your neck of the woods seem to have a special gift for it. I'm curious about why that is."
"Well, the Jews were the first to deny the Goddess," said Conch Shell. "And Islam is merely an offshoot of Judaism?" ventured Can o' Beans. Was Conch Shell implying that it was her goddess who had put a curse
—the curse, the legendary curse—on the Jews? And, by extension, on the whole Middle East? Was there, indeed, a curse at all, or was it simply a desperate (at times, violent) clinging to narrow, rigid belief systems that had brought so much suffering to the region, to the race? Could it be coincidence, a mere accident of geography and history? Or was there yet a different reason for the travail: something fabulous, unexamined, unthinkable, even; some circumstance hidden from human knowledge as if by a ... a veil?
Phantom swimmers, greased with speculation, took a few bright strokes through the waters of the bean can's intellect, but in its present condition it failed to provide adequate buoyancy, and they rapidly sank into the deep unconscious. When the ripples had subsided, Can o' Beans said, "I regret to inform you that Sidon and Tyre have shrunk in size and importance. They're just backwater burgs these days. But you're not returning to your place of natural origin, anyway. You aren't going to Lebanon, which used to be Phoenicia, you're going to—"
"We are returning to the Holy City for the opening of the Third Temple," said Painted Stick. It was practically the only relevant remark he was to make all afternoon. For Painted Stick, this period of exegesis proved merely an excuse to comment upon the galaxies, which he described as if they were inkwells into which he, like a busy pen, must be regularly dipped.
"Sounds like an event you've been looking forward to."
"Much of the world has been looking forward to it," said Conch Shell. "How come?"

"Oh, sir/ma'am, don't you know?" blurted Spoon, amazed that there might be a gap in Can o' Beans's erudition. "When the Third Temple is built, it will mean that the Second Coming is here."
Can o' Beans shrugged. "Third Temple. Second Coming. Who's on first?"
"Christians associate the rebuilding of the Temple in Jerusalem with the second appearance on earth of their deity, Jesus Christ," explained Conch Shell. "Jews associate it with the first appearance of their long-awaited Messiah, if that is what you intended. In either case, it is supposed to mean the end of the world as we know it."
"What if the Christ and the Messiah come, and they're two different guys?" asked Can o' Beans. "Would they debate on television? Would they lead their faithful off to two different rewards; separate, restricted heavens? And would Jesus, a pious Jew, really run with the Gentiles? Would there be a war between saviors that would 'save' the world by ending it? You look at the Middle East right now, look at Northern Ireland, at India with its Hindus and Sikhs; it would seem that most of the bloodshed in the world is the result of religious squabbling. Maybe that's why I'm cynical about religion."
"You are?" asked Spoon, incredulously. "Why, in your condition . . ." "It's blasphemy now, is it?" mumbled Dirty Sock.
"Things do not always turn out exactly as humans expect them to," Conch
Shell reminded them.
Painted Stick added something amazing and irrelevant about the moons of
Saturn.
"You're quite correct," said Can o' Beans. He/she meant that Conch Shell
was correct about people's expectations. The remarks of Spoon and Dirty Sock he/she dismissed as misplaced anthropomorphism, and whether or not Painted Stick was correct was anybody's guess. "Jesus, after all, has been away two thousand years. In all that time, he must have changed. As for the Messiah, he's rather a pig in a poke."
Conch Shell laughed. It was a high, musical, merry laugh, like the singing of field mice going forth to gather grain in a land where the hawks are all vegetarians. "Your attitude is probably healthy," said she. "The Third Temple could turn out to be associated with . . . with something quite different."
"Do you and Mr. Stick know what that is?" The can expected to get an earful of the Goddess.
"Considering the past, we certainly think we do. Yet when it comes to final fruit, we may be in for as much a surprise as anybody else."

"But it will be a big deal, this new Temple over there in Jerusalem town?" "We have every reason to expect it to be."
"And you and Mr. Stick—inanimate objects—will have a part in it?"
"We hope so," said Conch Shell. "We were promised that we would. Is it
not time that inanimate objects—and plants and animals— resume their rightful place in the affairs of the world? How long can humankind continue to slight these integral pieces of the whole reality?"
A shiver ran along the container's broken seam. It was excited by the implications of that notion, though despite its vantage point as an inanimate object, it did not fully understand them. Had it fully understood them, then for it, at least, for that injured can of pork 'n' beans, the second veil already would have fallen.

the third veil
~
Ellen Cherry and Boomer were trying to decide how to celebrate their anniversary. They had been married one week. Although she would have preferred to spend the evening sketching—try as she might, she couldn't think of a single attribute of wedlock that measured up to the bliss of a penciled line snaking across the Eden of a blank sheet of paper—Ellen Cherry suggested that they go dancing. Now Boomer Petway was a dancing fool, but it so happened that the lone floor open for public dancing on a March Wednesday in Livingston, Montana, was an "international" diseo that had recently supplanted the country- and-western bar in the Grizzly Bear Hotel. Livingston's famed literary crowd would be there, the couple was assured, as well as every aspiring jet-setter in that part of rural Montana, rising and falling in the glitz spill of chrome and neon like the studiously posed figures in a baroque masterpiece.
"No way, José," said Boomer. "When I turned thirty, I broke off diplomatic relations with the Pepsi generation. Any hip young people want to communicate with me, they have to go through the Swiss."
That attitude doesn't bode well for our art-scene life in New York, thought Ellen Cherry. But then, what did? "As I recall, honey boy, your relations with ranchers and farmers aren't in any détente mode, either, so I guess it's just as well there's not an ounce of excrement being kicked on the dance floors of this burg tonight. It's getting harder and harder to figure out your foreign policy."
"I'm nonaligned."
"But hardly nonaggressive." She touched her hair. It was familiarly stiff and convoluted, and that seemed to calm her. She wound a finger in a taffy coil, then pulled free and felt it spring. "What would you like to do this evening?"
Boomer was of the opinion that it would be piercingly romantic to go to a drive-in picture show. There they could relive, within certain parameters, their youthful nights at the Robert E. Lee. As it turned out, the Yellowstone Drive-in had come out of winter mothballs that very week, kicking off the new season with a blockbuster science-fiction triple feature:

2001: A Space Odyssey
2010: The Year We Make Contact
2020: So Who Needs Glasses?
They had to pay for four parking spaces. The roast turkey took up two spaces lengthwise, and one more on either side was blocked by its drumsticks. "Hang the expense!" shouted Boomer. "Nothing's too good for my juicy bride."
Lowering her eyes, Ellen Cherry turned to the ticket seller. "Of one week," she said meekly.
"Of one whole week!" thundered Boomer. "How 'bout a tub of popcorn, darlin?"
"You're going to spoil me."
Since they had legal and physical access to four speakers, they used them all, receiving the cartoony assault of the snack bar commercial quadrophonically. They also cranked up the Airstream's heating system, for, with the setting of the sun, an icy blue wind had come yowling out of Canada and into the drive-in picture show. The wind filled every available parking space but listened only to itself.
Since he had legal and physical access to what was inside them, Ellen Cherry removed her panties, to save Boomer the trouble, but after kissing her once or twice, he repaired to the Dometic eight-cubit-foot, AC/DC refrigerator, ostensibly for beer, only to surprise her by returning with a reasonably good bottle of French champagne. "The wine steward says this here is the perfect complement to buttered popcorn."
"There's hope for you yet," she said. She herself could not determine whether that flicker of hope caused her cheer or concern. "Happy anniversary." Beneath her skirt, where the panties had come and gone, where there was nothing but hair and nakedness, beneath her skirt (she was a southern woman, still, and refused to go about in jeans or trousers), Ellen Cherry crossed and uncrossed, crossed and uncrossed, her fingers.
~

"I wonder where they are now?" Verlin Charles had a folding map of the United States of America spread out on the coffee table before him. Verlin was looking at the states, which is to say, he was looking at the little variously colored shapes into which the larger shape, the shape representing the nation, was irregularly divided. Verlin's concept of "where they are now" was relative to the state shapes, nothing more, nothing less. People tended to regard those shapes, those comparatively brand-new, arbitrary, political subdivisions as if they were natural facts, ancient and inviolable; as if they were end products of evolution ("No, children, Texas did not evolve from Rhode Island; Texas and Rhode Island evolved from a common ancestor"), or, supposing the people were Bible Belt creationists, as if God had made the states, had sat down at his big cumulous desk with his big titanium pen in his big creative fist and said in his big boom-boom voice, "I think I'll make Louisiana look like a Frankenstein boot." Either way, people got very attached to the imagined physical reality of those states.
Because the map was printed on a flat surface, only four colors were required to separate each and every state shape from its neighbors. On a sphere, a globe, four colors likewise sufficed. Had the map been printed on a torus—a doughnut shape—seven colors would have been needed to allow for the state- shape distinctions. There are, of course, additional reasons why one seldom encounters a map of the United States on one's doughnut.
"I wonder where they are now?" said Verlin. He was tracking, after a fashion, the progress of his daughter and son-in-law, subconsciously wishing that it would take them a long, long time to reach the dreaded New York.
"I wonder where he is now?" said Patsy. She nodded her exploded cuckoo's nest—the head of hair whose trillion tornado curls had somehow forced their pattern into her chromosomes and been passed along to her daughter—at the Reverend Buddy Winkler.
In the easy chair, where he had dozed off while watching "Jeopardy!" on the Charleses' console, Buddy was writhing in a dream. It didn't appear to be a nightmare: his thin lips were parted in a pious sort of grin. Yet, he twisted and kicked, and he was sweating like an icebox. Patsy was fascinated by the sheen he projected, the way his boils glistened. Patsy switched off the lamp.
"Hey! What're you doing?" complained Verlin. "I'm studyin' this dad- blamed map."
"Sorry, sweet pea. I just wanted to see if you could read by the light of Bud's boils."

The instant she switched the lamp back on, Buddy snapped awake. Once he had gotten his bearings, once he realized that they were into prime time and the game show was over, he turned to Verlin and Patsy and gave them a serious smile. "The Lord has just spoken to me," he said. Effortlessly, he switched into his saxophone voice. "The Lord has addressed me in this living room!"
"That's rude. He didn't say beans to me, and it's my house."
"Patsy, now."
"Did you hear the Lord, Verlin? I swear, if I'd known the Lord was gonna
show up, I'd of emptied the blessed ashtrays."
Verlin and Buddy in perfect unison: "Patsy!"
"Sorry. I didn't mean any disrespect. It's just so ... unusual." She looked to
Verlin, hoping that he would pick up the ball, but he was as closed as the Kellogg states, those little Plains states on his map that were all shaped like cereal boxes. Patsy jumped back in. "What did the Lord say to you, Bud?" She was sincere. Sincerely sincere.
"The Temple," Buddy answered vaguely. "God said something about rebuildin' the Temple." It was as if the preacher had not heard the Lord too clearly.
"Rebuilding what temple?"
Abruptly, Buddy rose to his feet. "What time is it?"
" 'Bout eight-fifteen," said Verlin.
"Hmmm. Well, too late tonight." Almost affectionately, Buddy stroked the
epidermal eruptions about his chin. "First thing tomorrow morning," he announced, "I'm gonna get me a Jew on the phone."
~
Can o' Beans had feared that when Ellen Cherry married the husky fellow with the thinning black hair, the man called Boomer, he/she might have been emptied out and, along with a whole string of other cans, tied to the bumper of a honeymoon car. As the car drove down the street, trailing paper streamers, inflated condoms, and squiggles of shaving cream, the cans would clatter and clang, proclaiming to one and all in their vulgar clamor that the bashful, nervous innocents who occupied the car were en route from the altar to the bed.
As it turned out, the honeymoon car was the Airstream turkey, and none of Ellen Cherry's friends—the waitresses who wept and then got drunk and wept

some more—could muster the courage or whatever it took to decorate the thing. The Airstream turkey just didn't lend itself to decoration. "How about cranberry sauce?" one waitress suggested. "A hundred pounds of it," added another. "Where we gonna put it?" asked a third. "Where we gonna get it?" asked a fourth. A fifth, openly weeping, inquired, "What's cranberry sauce got to do with having a husband to love you forever and ever?" In the end, they hadn't touched the turkey. Perhaps the turkey was a complete statement, a sentence to which no further clause or phrase could logically be appended. Perhaps it was just too weird.
Now, Can o' Beans was thinking that he/she would be satisfied to end up in a wedding procession. If, with the help of Mr. Stick, he/she could make it as far as a church, a little roadside chapel, well, he/she could just lie around in the yard there, drained dry of sauce, and sooner or later some bridesmaid or younger brother would tie him/ her to the bumper of a honeymoon car, and JUST MARRIED JUST MARRIED honk honk honk clatter bangle clink, he/she would end his/her career, if not in a blaze of glory, at least as a participant in a traditional rite of noisy joy. How much finer that would be than being left on this rockpile for the porcupines to lick and the buzzards of the sky to pee upon.
But, wait. Why was he/she sinking into morbid fantasies? There were a couple of hours left before dusk. With thermonuclear nonchalance, the sun was still cheerfully converting hydrogen into helium at the rate of four million, two- hundred-thousand tons per second, and inside the solar-heated can, the beans were enjoying genetic memories of the photosynthesis that had made them possible. Moreover, Conch Shell had resumed her narration. Can o' Beans shrugged off his/her sense of impending doom and paid attention.
~
Boomer was disposed to swill the champagne directly from the bottle, a procedure that violated some sense of propriety in his wife. Ellen Cherry was from the South and had good manners. She didn't have panties on, but she had good manners.
Ellen Cherry walked back to the galley and fetched two glasses. They were water tumblers, but they were glasses. "Honey," she said, "I've lost my spoon."
"You were gonna take this champagne by the spoon?" "Hey, it's good, but it's not that good."

"You were gonna eat your popcorn with a spoon, then. A Yankee habit you picked up in Seattle."
"Just shut up, Boomer," she said. The movie had started, and some men in monkey suits were prancing around a huge sculpture of a candy bar. For a second, Ellen Cherry thought it was a wilder version of the snack bar commercial.
"Whaddaya mean you've lost your spoon? You only had one spoon?"
"Forget it." On the screen, the apemen were worshipping the great god Hershey. Some sort of primitive chocolate cult. "I've got—we've got—a whole blessed set of stainless steel flatware. But I had a special little spoon. It was a silver dessert spoon. I bought it at a Catholic garage sale."
"That spoon meant right smart to you," said Boomer. His mouth was stuffed with popcorn. "And now it's lost."
"You're making fun of me. It's no big deal." She filled their glasses. "For the first three years I lived in Seattle, it was the only spoon I had to my name. I had chopsticks and one spoon. I think I left it in the cave back there."
"You wanna go back and get it?" "Well, obviously I do!"
Boomer stared at her. "Seriously?" "No, God, no. Don't be silly."
" 'Cause I'll do it."
"Forget it, Boomer."
"I'd go back and get your spoon. It's hundreds of miles, but I'd go"
"I know you would. Forget it. Let's drink a toast. It was just a dumb little
secondhand spoon."
He lifted his glass. There was a spaceship on the screen. "Well, your spoon
can just keep my sock company."
They laughed. They toasted their week of marriage, including their hour in
the cave. Little did they know.
~
"So Mr. Stick was made from the wood of a fig tree, a very old fig tree that apparently had some special aura about it, like the locals thought it was enchanted or something. Maybe it had been struck by lightning or there was a spring beneath it. Maybe it was just old. Sometimes, being old is enough.

Clearly, I'm not respected because I'm a bean can but rather because I'm old, as bean cans go; I've been around, seen things, learned a thing or two, survived, and that puts me in a separate category, a kind of elder statesman among canned vegetables. It's a common thing with humans. Mr. Petway remarked to Miss Charles that now that he'd reached the age of thirty, he was going to start starching the collars of his Hawaiian shirts. He said, yes, of course, it would chafe his neck but dignity had its price. Droll fellow. Although disagreeably prolific in the production of epidermal foliage. I'm sure happy that inanimate objects have been spared the curse of body hair. Anyway, there was this venerated fig tree in Phoenicia, and Mr. Stick was fashioned from its wood by an equally venerated astronomer."
As Conch Shell and Painted Stick were telling their story (the stick's contribution consisting mainly of irrelevant asides pertaining to what did and did not get caught in the spiderweb of the stars), Can o' Beans retold it to him/herself. That was his/her method of absorbing information. Whatever Can o' Beans heard or overheard, he/she immediately repeated it—or a personalized version of it—to him/herself. That way it stuck. It would be interesting to see if a kid could get through Harvard using a retention technique perfected by a can of pork and beans.
"This revered astronomer maintained an observatory on the Plain of Al Biqä. It's amazing that there were observatories so long ago, nearly a thousand years before Christ, but I guess the ancients paid a lot of attention to the heavens, even though they had no instruments. That is, they had no telescopes. Evidently, Mr. Stick was designed as an astronomical instrument of some sort. He pointed out unusual occurrences in the sky.
"The astronomer cut the stick and walked it to his observatory, where, under a full moon, it was painted by the priestess. The observatory doubled as a special shrine where the more educated Phoenicians would come to adore Astarte. (One of the Goddess's titles was Shepherdess of the Stars.) There was an attractive priestess on duty there, and Mr. Stick is claiming that she would have sex with anyone who made a cash donation to the observatory. A novel means of institutional fund-raising. Wonder if the Smithsonian knows about it?
"Later that same year, a sailor donated Miss Shell to the observatory. The Phoenicians were a seafaring people, famous for their navigation, and this fellow had discovered the conch shell on a deserted beach. In his opinion, she manifested an aspect of Astarte, so he brought her to the astronomer, who'd taught him everything he knew about starlight, and to the priestess, who'd shown

him the irrefutable link between pussy and the Pleiades. Carl Sagan, eat your heart out.
"Mr. Stick and Miss Shell hit it off right from the start. Individually, they were fine, but in tandem they were terrific. Like Tracy and Hepburn. Gradually, they acquired a reputation as especially effective talismans. It was partly because of them that King Ethbaal and Queen Acco of Sidon paid a royal visit to the observatory, bringing along their young daughter, Princess Jezebel. The child enjoyed her first spiritual experience there. She realized that there was something larger, more meaningful in life than licking honeycomb and dressing up her pet monkey.
"Several years later, when Jezebel was the blushing bride of King Ahab of Israel, her parents wrote her that the astronomer had died. Jezebel dispatched an agent to Phoenicia to acquire the contents of the observatory reliquary for a shrine she was having built in Samaria, capital of northern Israel. Jerusalem was capital of southern Israel, known then as Judah. Isn't it true that there's always a rivalry between north and south? North and South Korea, North and South Vietnam, Northern and Southern Ireland, Yankees and Rebels, uptown and downtown. Somebody please tell me why that is? Maybe southerners get too much sun, like Mr. Sock over there, frying his threads, and northerners don't get enough (although I hardly think northern Israel a cool spot in the shade), but southern peoples— tropical and downtown types—always seem to lean toward decadence, whereas uptown, in the north, progress is favored. Decadence and progress obviously are at odds. In any case, Israel and Judah were rivals, and it was a peacock feather in Israel's cap, militarily and commercially, when Ahab married Jezebel, cementing close relations with Phoenicia. When Ahab got Jezebel, though, he also got Astarte, which wasn't that bad of a deal since few around him except a bunch of angry old geezers with bad breath and impotence anxiety gave much of a hoot for Yahweh. At least, that's what Miss Shell is reporting."
~
Midway through 2010: The Year We Make Contact, Ellen Cherry lost contact. She was tired of bland Right Stuffers, gay computers, and extraterrestrial chocolate bars. ("It's from Jupiter," she said. "It's not even a Mars bar.") Champagne and popcorn were long gone, leaving a greasy bubble in her

belly and her mind, and their petting session had petered out; it was tough to snuggle in bucket seats.
Finally, after considerable squirming of buttocks and clearing of throat, Ellen Cherry dared to ask to be excused. "Honey, would you be terribly upset if I went in the back and painted for a while?"
"Do what you have to do."
Pretending not to notice the sudden drop in husbandly temperature, the fidelity with which his tone mimicked the death grunt of a hypothermal polar bear, Ellen Cherry kissed her mate's broad forehead, from which the hairs were retreating like farm boys fleeing the old homestead for the lights of the city, and said, "Thanks, hon. I'll make it up to you on our two-week anniversary."
"We'll be in New York then." He said it as if being in New York was the equivalent of being in some kind of trouble.
"Yeah!" she exclaimed, cheerfully. "The biggest apple in the orchard, and we're going to sauce it." Before he could refute her, she sailed from the cockpit into the cabin, moving with speed and grace, considering that she was dragging a dead skunk of guilt by a logging chain.
As she selected one of several stretched, sized, and primed canvases from the full-length pull-out storage drawer beneath the side lounge sofa, she thought:
I've ruined it for him.
As she set up her easel in the side lounge, she thought:
He wanted me to stay. I wanted to go. Somebody had to lose.
As she mixed her colors, squirting ringlets of paint from the tubes, she
thought:
He thinks it's not right that art is the most important thing in my life. But
that's why I'm good at what I do.
As she unwrapped her brushes, inspecting each one individually in the ghastly, stale turkey light, she thought:
He says I love my art more than I love him. Well, he's correct. But I also love it more than 1 love me.
Once she commenced to paint, she ceased to think. That skunk corpse of guilt floated off like a hairball. Soon she was whistling and humming, dancing first on one foot and then the other. She slopped the paint on, and she dabbed it on, she knifed it on thick, and she washed it on thin, she tinted it with white and shaded it with black, she blended it into creamy textures and isolated it in singular, emphatic, commalike brush strokes. When it came to techniques, she was definitely a slut.

On her small canvas, she recreated a section of the Crazy Mountains, the range near Livingston that they had admired earlier that day; that is to say, she recreated the mountains not as she had originally seen them but as she eventually chose to see them, for a person has not only perceptions but a will to perceive, not only a capacity to observe the world but a capacity to alter his or her observation of it—which, in the end, is the capacity to alter the world, itself. Those people who recognize that imagination is reality's master, we call "sages," and those who act upon it, we call "artists."
Or "lunatics." Can o' Beans was correct when he/she linked low-reality orientation to mental illness, but the true idiot is distinguished from the "idiot" sage or "idiot" artist by his or her lack of control. The idiot's twisted perceptions of the world are not voluntarily or imaginatively altered, they are merely faulty. Lunatics are at the mercy of misunderstood and unmanageable perceptions. When it comes to their reality, artists call the shots.
Ellen Cherry was calling the shots, turning mountains upside down, changing boulders into willow trees and willows into lemon meringue pie. The canvas vibrated with mad megajoules of natural energy: geology, meteorology, zoology, and botany all mixed together in a slow boiling tribute to nature and paint. Painting, she sang a song of cobalts and oxides, cadmiums and umbers; naming the pigments aloud as a novice in a convent might recite the names of the saints: "Vandyke brown," for example, patron saint of cheap cigars; "rose madder," protector of irate florists.
She sang and whistled and danced; she winked and squinted and stuck out her tongue; she smirked and scowled and scratched her pussy (her panties were still dangling from the cockpit gearshift); she got paint on her elbows and in her hair (where, because it was yellow ochre—patron saint of Tulsa Chinamen—it blended in and went unnoticed for days); she flung, plodded, stabbed, and caressed with loaded brushes, lost in a state of dizzy transcendence, as glad as a hobo on the way out of town.
The finished product? Well, it was neither a harsh slice of reality nor a harmless fluff of fantasy, but something in between. In the unpromising surfaces of bare rock, she had found a bright wheel of capricious emotions, while in cloud puffs that surely must have been burping with innate whimsy, she found such a bleakness as would chill the heart of a commissioner. She wasted little time admiring the finished product, however, but set right to work tidying up after herself. And once disengaged from the act of creation, her guilt came back. In her rush to return to her husband, she committed the cardinal sin of the painter:

she inadequately cleaned her brushes.
As far as Boomer was concerned, she needn't have hurried. He was fast
asleep, folded over the steering wheel like a bearskin rug. Gently, she shook him. Blinking, bewildered, it appeared as if the act of waking was something foreign to him, as if the very idea of waking was a concept that his mind could not frame.
"Why you waking me up?" he grumbled.
For some reason, she could not tell him the truth: that it was after one in the morning, they were parked in four spaces at a drive-in movie theater in the middle of Montana, the movies were over, the lights were up, the other cars had left, a loud, vulgar wind was spitting snowflakes like seeds from an albino watermelon, the attendants were too intimidated to rap on the window of this grotesque vehicle and were probably debating at that moment whether or not to telephone the sheriff. Ellen Cherry, for some reason, couldn't tell Boomer that. So, she said, "Because you were snoring."
He blinked some more. He couldn't believe his ears. "I wasn't snoring," he said indignantly. "I was on assignment."
When the police cruiser pulled alongside the roast turkey, Ellen Cherry was still turning his words over in her mind, as if, in understanding them, she might learn whether she loved him or whether she did not.
~
"Phoenicia means 'land of the purple.' Grapes? Wisteria? Diarrhetic prose? A violet haze in the hills? No, Phoenician traders were famous throughout the Mediterranean and beyond for their red-purple dyed goods.
"Believe it or not, the source of the purple dye was the conch, the marine animal that occupied, that constructed, shells such as this one that sits beside me in my hour of need. Phoenicians actively hunted conch for the dye that was in them. In prying loose the animal, its shell was usually damaged, which was why a large, unbroken specimen, such as our friend here, was comparatively rare.
"In a sense, the dye conch symbolized Phoenicia. The Phoenician language was closely related to Hebrew, the language of King Ahab, and there were other cultural bonds, but even so, Jezebel was homesick for her native land. Miss Conch Shell became a comfort to her, serving her emotionally as well as spiritually, representing not only Astarte but placid, palm-lined coastal towns

whose buildings, streets, and workers' hands were perpetually permeated with a reddish-purple dye. As far as the queen was concerned, the thoroughly Phoenician Miss Shell was the centerpiece of Samaria's principal goddess shrine. Wrapped in purple papyrus, she was often clutched to the royal bosom.
"Land of the purple. That has a nice ring. O'er the land of the purple and the home of the mauve. Our Mr. Sock is purple, come to think of it, purple like the circles under a Mafia don's eyes, purple like the government inspection stamp on a cut of raw meat. I'm tempted to ask what Mr. Sock might have fetched on the Phoenician market. Ooops! Mustn't laugh. Makes my sauce burble out."
~
"Mer-cee," said Patsy. "Bud sure left here in a good mood."
"Why shouldn't he be in a good mood?"
"Not saying he shouldn't. Just saying he was."
"Something happened to him while he dozed off after supper. Something
definitely happened. The Lord speaking to him in a dream and all. It may be beyond your and my understanding. God works his wonders in mysterious ways."
"That's a fact," agreed Patsy. She returned to her crocheting, Verlin went back to trying to fold his road map. "You know, though, hon, that rebuilding the Temple business—don't it strike you as being up to something?"
"I don't know a blessed thing about it. What kind of up-to-something?"
"Well, it just seems like so many preachers these days are in it for the fame and fortune."
"Huh! Buddy don't have a pot to whiz in."
"Not yet."
"You casting stones, Patsy?"
She sighed. "Not in any position to, I reckon." She fell silent for a time,
reflecting upon her own transgressions, comparing them to those she imagined of Buddy Winkler: the weakness of the flesh versus the hunger of ambition. That, of course, got her nowhere, and eventually she gave up on it. She smiled fatalistically and hid the smile behind her crocheting. I'd be obliged to say this much, she concluded. Of the Seven Deadly Sins, lust is definitely the pick of the litter.

~
As the spring afternoon wore on, as noisy birds gargled bug juice and buds struggled to free themselves, layer by layer, from their tight Victorian undergarments, Painted Stick and Conch Shell told how the misogynist Yahweh party relentlessly slandered the reputation of Astarte and her champion in Israel, Queen Jezebel, and how, finally, the widowed Jezebel was murdered by Elisha's Yahwist puppet, Jehu. They told how they were spirited into hiding by brave farmers, who secreted them in grain jars during the cruel purge that followed Jehu's usurpation of power. By the hundreds, priests and priestesses of the goddess were butchered, their holy places leveled. It was 843 B.C. The year the patriarchs won the pennant.
In a matter of months, however, Jezebel's daughter, Athaliah, came out of left field, so to speak, and managed to seat herself on the throne of southern Israel, Judah. Painted Stick and Conch Shell found themselves smuggled into Jerusalem, into the Great Temple, itself; the First Temple, Solomon's Temple, so- called; the magnificent Hebrew hobble-gobble, where curtains of Phoenician purple, a kind of lullaby, calmed the strident psalms of agitated gold.
Athaliah lasted six years before a patriarchal assassin took her life. During Athaliah's reign, the goddess once again held Jerusalem on her lap. In the temple that Hiram and his skilled Phoenician artisans had built for Solomon, Painted Stick and Conch Shell lived among loaves of gold and silver, among ten thousand candlesticks that were nightly lit; alongside forty thousand harps, two hundred thousand trumpets; among countless jewel-encrusted censers, cups, and vials; among alabaster jars of anointing oils and, for the bronze altar at which offerings were burned, shovels, basins, snuffers, and tongs, all of the finest brass. Those showy furnishings, ordered by Solomon, had little to do with the Goddess, except that they were decorated everywhere with images of lotus, fig, pomegranate, and what the historian Josephus called "the most curious flowers" (vaginal symbols, each of them); but the stick and the shell were comfortably at home amidst the splendor, for as long as Astarte was honored there, they were considered as valuable as treasure.
In the housecleaning that followed Athaliah's homicide, however, they were shunted to an obscure storeroom, where in the company of various golden calves, sperm boats, maternity funnels, tambourines, donkey masks, dance scrolls, and lazy ivory-inlaid vipers, they collected a century's worth of dust.

"We were not put in a trance as we were in the cave back yonder," explained Conch Shell, "so even for the inanimate, time passed slowly." She recalled that in the storeroom there were rosewood vials designed to catch the teardrops of women in childbirth, and how the impatient vials filled to overflowing with their own dusty tears. Yet, the talismans were to return to their high station. For centuries, from the time of its completion (962 B.C.) until its destruction by the Babylonians (586 B.C.), the Great Temple swung like a pendulum, back and forth, between Yahweh and Astarte.
Solomon, himself, consorted with the Goddess, a fact so well documented that even biblical revisionists have dared not attempt a cover-up, although they have blamed his "tolerance of paganism" on the influence of his numerous foreign wives. Solomon was said to know the secrets of the plant and animal worlds and how to cast spells that could exorcise demons and heal the ill. Josephus was told that, actually, the king's wives and concubines performed those deeds in his name. Perhaps the pagan women—there were more than seven hundred of them—were the source of his celebrated wisdom, as well, although the book containing his alleged profundities wasn't written until six hundred years after his death, and many of its ideas can be traced to the early Greek philosophers.
In any case, when King Manasseh was crowned in 693 B.C., the pendulum swung back to the Goddess with such force that Painted Stick and Conch Shell, dusted and polished, were consulted and employed with a regularity and reverence that they hadn't experienced since their heyday in the observatory. Painted Stick not only pulled astronomy duty up on the roof (made of Phoenician cedar plated with gold), but joined Conch Shell in the inner sanctum when the priests deflowered privileged virgins, winners of a series of "Miss Judah" contests.
Spoon was as shocked as she could be by this talk of fornication in the Holy of Holies. Conch Shell explained to her that the First Temple had teemed with sexual activity from the night of its dedication onward, even, to some extent, when under strict Levite (Yahwist) control. A famous pair of phallic pillars guarded its entrance, and, like almost all the temples of the ancient world, it was financially supported by the earnings of holy prostitutes.
"Oh dear, oh my," muttered Spoon. She felt as weak as the stricken bean tin and had to steady herself lest she collapse beside it.
From his/her awkward position, Can o' Beans tried to comfort her. "As near as I can determine, Miss Spoon, this business had nothing in common with some

sordid grinding in a cheap motel or drunken octopusing in the backseat of a car, such as you might have heard the Jesuits condemn. Why, it was even more exalted than marital congress. This was sacred sex, conducted with ceremony and in full consciousness, meant to mime the act of original Creation, to celebrate life at its most intense and crucial moment. We're not talking the old in- and-out, slip-slap here, Miss Spoon, we're talking the ignition of the divine spark and ..." For the first time, Spoon closed her ears (not that she had ears, understand) to the erudition of Can o' Beans, turning away from him/her, offended and disturbed.
Dirty Sock chuckled under his breath (not that he had breath, understand).
~
Like a neon fox tongue lapping up the powdered bones of space chickens, the rising sun licked away at the light snow that had fallen during the night. Ellen Cherry was already out of bed. She was filling a tray with fried egg sandwiches, chocolate doughnuts, and beer: Boomer's favorite breakfast.
She wasn't kidding herself. She was trying to assuage her guilt, pure and simple. Intellectually, she knew that she had done nothing about which to feel guilty, yet emotionally it was so deeply embedded in her that a woman's job was to tend to her husband that she was compelled to do penance for having allowed the most important thing in her life to momentarily interfere with the trifles of tending. That's just the way it was. No sense fighting it.
"Did I get enough mayonnaise on the bread for you, sweet darlin?"
"Yes ma'am, and I thank you for that." He licked a squiggle of excess off his upper lip. "I also thank you for talking that cop outta locking me up last night."
"You weren't exactly Miss Manners with him, Boomer. He only wanted you to identify yourself."
"He wanted me to be afraid of him. All cops want that. I'm a terrible disappointment to policemen."
Watching him dunk a doughnut in his beer mug, she said, "You aren't a particularly fearful person, are you?"
"Long as you're not afraid, nobody can run your life for you. Remember that. Hell is being scared of things. Heaven is refusing to be scared. I mean that literally." He took a bite of soggy doughnut. "Now you know my religion."

"Yeah, but can people really choose not to be afraid?"
"Damn right." Staring into the nude Buddha colors of his beer, he chewed quietly for several minutes, then abruptly looked up at her. "I'm lying like a dog," he said.
"What do you mean?"
"I am afraid of something. I'm afraid of you."
"Aw, come on." She issued a laugh so dry it was almost a cough. "How
could you possibly be afraid of me?"
"You have my heart."
"Honey!" She was astonished to find him blurry-eyed and openmouthed,
like a child about to cry. "Why, I would never intentionally do anything to—" "You have my rough ol' welder's heart, and you have your art. I don't know
if you're big enough for both of us."
"Oh, baby, of course ..." Even as she was protesting, however, she was
gazing past him, through an Airstream window, at the sun climbing above the lightly dusted hills, and thinking how she would like to paint it as a neon fox tongue licking up the powdered bones of angels.
~
"One of the hills on which Jerusalem sprang up had a threshing floor atop it, a threshing floor being a large flat rock where farmers mugged wheat, beating and shaking down the harvested sheaves until the grain spilled out. Well, the story got around that this particular threshing floor was actually crowning Mount Moriah, the place where in the myth of Abraham and Isaac, the father was ready to slit his son's throat to prove his devotion to Yahweh. Talk about your loyalty oaths. Consequently, by design or arbitrariness, that flat rock became to the Hebrews a sacred spot, a power center—enlarging the folktale, some claimed the rock had come from Eden and that Adam was buried under it—and when Solomon decided to have a great temple built, this alleged Mount Moriah was the site he selected. "To hold the massive complex that Solomon had in mind—a Superdome of faith—the hill had to be topped, leveled, and terraced. It was time- consuming, and it wasn't cheap, but Solomon, or his harem, was at least wise enough to realize that when you're out to erect the most holy building on earth, a sanctuary that must help you unify and control a large imperial nation of mixed race and religion, you don't just stick it in a handy vacant field like you would a

new shopping mall. Your building lot has got to have some magic about it." (At this point, Can o' Beans, who had been pumping Conch Shell and
Painted Stick for background information about the First Temple, would have liked to interrupt their account [and his/her silent reiteration of it] to inquire about the nature of magic—he/she suspected that the shell and the stick, considering their origins in an age when such things were not held up to ridicule, were well versed in the magical arts—but like many a timid or hidebound novelist, he/she dared not still the narrative flow.)
"Once the top of Mount Moriah had been transformed into a wide plateau and its slopes recontoured to accommodate roads and steps, Solomon, through Hiram, got down to the nitty-gritty of erecting his extravaganza. Solomon was the producer, you might say, and Hiram the director. They commanded a cast of thousands. All nonunion. For openers, there were a hundred and fifty thousand Canaanite slaves, laboring to avoid the lash, plus thirty thousand Israelites drafted into the Temple job corps and not even ea ning falafel money. There were three thousand straw bosses barking orders, and probably an equal number of skilled masons, metalworkers, and master carpenters from Hiram's Phoenicia. The Phoenicians dressed in purple and got the pick of the chick-peas from the company store.
"Even with all those grunts and gofers, it took seven years to complete construction—an additional three years had been spent getting the materials together. Ever thus with government projects, I suppose. When it was done, though, it was a sight to behold. With its tiered walls and hierarchical courtyards, one inside the other like Chinese boxes, it covered several acres. As Miss Shell describes it, the outer walls, like the buildings, were made of stone, Israel's lone natural resource. Inside, the stone was planked with good old Phoenician cedar, and then to the cedar they affixed plates of silver and gold, many of them set with gemstones. At today's prices, the Temple's structural precious metal bill alone would run upward of six billion dollars. Makes you appreciate aluminum siding. Wonder what the insurance premium would've run Solomon on a spread like that?
"Of course, vain King Solomon had been dead for more than a century before Miss Shell and Mr. Stick arrived on the scene. They learned about the Temple's construction from the stones themselves. The place was a bit beat-up and stained by the time our friends landed there, but it still was a compound of considerable glory, especially on national holidays, when thousands would stream up its steps, chanting, banging tambourines, grappling with their bleating

sacrifices, so blinded by the shine and sparkle of their surroundings that they couldn't look directly at them. Oops. Hold on a minute, bean can. I said Sol had been dead for more than a century. Wrong. Solomon died in 933 B.C., Miss Shell and Mr. Stick were first employed in the Temple in 843 B.C. That's ninety years, not a hundred and ten. This backward counting gets confusing. But think what it must have been like for the folks who were around when Baby Jesus was born. They'd been counting backward all their lives, their ancestors counted backward as far back as anyone could remember; and, scheeech, all of a sudden they woke up one morning, skidded to a halt, and had to start counting in the opposite direction. I tell you, that switch from B.C. to A.D. must have driven people nuts. I bet more than a few Israelites missed their dental appointments."
~
Blue lights flashing like a mutant shoppers' special at a postnuclear K mart, a squad car forced a smoke-spewing, rust-freckled, tailpipe-dragging old Chevy wagon to the curb.
"I'm the Reverend Buddy Winkler," the driver announced hopefully.
"And I'm Officer Dishman. Let me see your driver's license."
Buddy had only been going twenty-nine miles an hour, but the speed limit
on the Strip was twenty-five and not an internal combustion more. When the shock of recognition he'd been expecting proved not forthcoming, the preacher pulled out his wallet. An empty gum wrapper came out with it, fluttering like an anorectic moth to the blue-lit pavement at the policeman's feet.
"God spoke to me tonight, officer," said Buddy. "I nodded off after supper, and God come to me and showed me a vision and gave unto me a mission." He was warming up his saxophone. "You can't be completely holden to man's speed limits when you're on a mission for the Lord."
In many cities, he would have been hauled to the station for a Breathalyzer test, but this was Colonial Pines, Virginia. The policeman not only let Buddy drive away without a citation, but he also donated five dollars to the cause. "Remember my little Jimmy in your prayers. He's got allergies right awful."
Oddly elated, Buddy didn't feel like going straight home. He poked the five-dollar bill, which he saw as a sign of blessings to come, into his shirt pocket, and, for some reason, circled back past the Charles house, site of his epiphany. Through the living room window, he glimpsed his cousin and his

cousin's wanton wife. Verlin was still trying to fold that blamed road map, but Patsy had finished crocheting her bikini. That hadn't taken long. Of course, the thing was so teeny a couple of silkworms could have knocked it off on their lunch break.
Although by now he had chugged past their house, Buddy pushed down hard on his horn. "Make a joyful noise unto the Lord!" he cried through the worm-eaten crucifixes of his dental Golgotha.
~
The pendulum swung yet again. This time a ramrod named Josiah took control, and during the thirty years of his reign, Miss Shell and Mr. Stick had to lay low, shuttled by night between the various clandestine shrines that dotted the desert near the Dead Sea. In human celebrity terms, it was as if they were reduced to playing small suburban clubs after a career of headlining in the likes of the Hollywood Bowl—yet dear Conch Shell and Painted Stick suffered no ego contusions. Oh, to the contrary. The First Temple, after all, served its nation as treasury, academy, seminary, council chamber, and talk-show set, and was so boisterous with political, economic, and theological debate (not to mention sexual shenanigans) that it threatened to engulf the Holy of Holies in institutional jabber. The crude desert shrines, although always in danger of Yahwist attack, provided our shell and stick welcome respite from the plots and intrigues that invariably poison the honey in the hives of the powerful.
"Believe it or not—and this is starting to make me dizzy—the Yahweh- Astarte round-robin still wasn't over. After Josiah's death, his successor, King Jehoiakim, immediately undid his reforms (the pull of that old goddess was pretty strong, obviously), and Miss Shell and Mr. Stick, patinaed now by brine and sandstorm and bonfire, were carted out of the boulder-strewn wilderness to be displayed in the Great Temple once again. From 609 until 586 B.C., they sat among priestly paraphernalia, acting as rods that might attract Astarte's capricious lightning, any bolt of which was said to jolt a human psyche temporarily free of the chains that bound it to a mundane life of tears and toil. Then . . .
"One evening, as twilight was buttering the stones of the city, as smoke from the cookfires trailed like the beards of ascending prophets in the dimming sky, Painted Stick was carried to the Temple roof. All Jerusalem lay below him,

as much in squalor as in splendor; a thorny, windy, sun-baked hill town, stiff of roofline, elastic of spirit; knocked a little cockeyed by all the comings and goings of armies and superstitions, cults and caravans, plunderers and philosophers, saviors and destroyers; but a habitat in spite of everything, a shelter, sinking now into a night of small and simple pleasures: wineskins and pita breads, snores, prayers, and embraces—its stone eyelids already closed to the singular debt that I'm afraid it must someday settle with eternity.
"Beyond the Jaffa Gate, Gaza swallowed the sun like quicksand swallowing a flamingo, and the priests finally turned toward the eastern quadrant, which was now dark enough to entertain a star or two. At once they noticed an unfamiliar dull red glow clinging to the northeast horizon line the way that a stray spark would cling to a woolen cloak, winking, smoldering, unsure of whether to flare or fade. Their eyes automatically fell on Painted Stick, but the stick registered nothing. One of them held the stick aloft, pointing it like an accusing finger at the distant ember. Nothing. They wagged the stick then, coaxing it the way a dowser must sometimes coax a divining fork. Neither a twitch nor a vibration. The instrument was totally unresponsive. The red spot glowed on. Very strange."
~
There was a famous landscape painter, Russell Chatham, who lived in Livingston, Montana, and Ellen Cherry had hoped to pay him a courtesy call. Under the circumstances, however, she decided against it. No sense slipping another art burr under Boomer's saddle, especially when she couldn't make up her mind whether or not she wanted him bucked off. Surely, there were other women in the world who were confused about their feelings for their husbands. Otherwise, there would be no excuse for Burt Reynolds. The question was, were there other women who were confused about their feelings for their husbands after one week of marriage? She concluded that there must be. Probably some women, maybe a lot of women, walked down the aisle asking themselves, "Who is that man in the tuxedo? Why is he looking at me like that? How much better do I really want to know him?" At any rate, Ellen Cherry thought it better that she shove art on the back burner until they reached New York. When the subject did arise, later that same day, it was Boomer who brought it up.
Leaving the last snowfall of spring to melt in the Crazies, leaving the

famous landscape painter, Russell Chatham, to go through life without ever meeting his colleague, Ellen Cherry Charles, they goosed the turkey northeastward and late in the afternoon crossed the Missouri River. "You know who loved this here Missouri River?" Boomer asked. "You know who lived along it and loved it well?"
Thomas Hart Benton, thought Ellen Cherry. However, since she didn't want to mention an artist, she answered, "No, hon, I don't."
"The outlaw Jesse James," said Boomer. "That's who." Boomer was quiet for a while, as if the river had taken his tongue and carried it to some faroff place. Then he said, "Jesse James robbed beaucoup banks and near as many trains. He was in shoot-outs, ambushes, what have you, there was a posse big as an army on his tail around the clock, including Christmas. But, you know, ol' Jesse never got a scratch.
One day, though, he turned reckless and went to hang a picture on the wall. He was standing on a chair just hanging and admiring that pretty picture, and Robert Ford snuck up behind him, blew a hole in his skull. So much for art, I reckon."
The sun peeked through the cottonwoods not long after that, and the roast turkey, stuffed with silence, glimpsed its own reflection swimming in the Missouri River.
~
The priests sent for the high priestess. 'There's something wrong with your stick,' they told her. 'It won't report on that red glow in the sky.' The high priestess ran a test. 'Nothing's the matter with the stick,' she said. 'That glow happens to be man-made.'
"Come midnight, every priest, priestess, rabbi, sage, and counsel in temple service were up on the roof gazing to the north and the east. By then, there were three red glows in the sky.
"The despised old prophet, Jeremiah, was trying to get up onto the roof, as well, but every time his smelly gray beard appeared at the top of the steps, someone swung a fist at him and chased him down again. 'It's the Babylonians!' Jeremiah kept yelling. 'Yahweh has sent the Babylonians as punishment to you who have desecrated his laws.'
"Jeremiah was at least half right, and everybody knew it. At last, they sent a

messenger to awaken the king. Just before dawn, the king ascended to the rooftop. He stood there in a robe of Phoenician purple and watched his outlying fortresses burn. 'Surrender! Surrender!' old Jeremiah was screaming. 'Surrender and accept Yahweh's judgment, else Jerusalem be destroyed.' The king ordered somebody to brain Jeremiah with Mr. Stick, but the high priestess, not willing to risk breaking the instrument, threw her sandal at the prophet, instead.
"For most practical purposes, the Babylonians had been running Judea (that's southern Israel, remember) for a decade. Much in the way, I suppose, that the Soviet Union ran Poland or Czechoslovakia.
Babylon was riding tall under its powerful leader, Nebuchadnezzar. My, oh my, they don't make names like that anymore. Ronald, George, Gary, Jimmy, just plain Bill: these modern mediocre monikers aren't fit to shine the shoes of Nebuchadnezzar. John is a label. Nebuchadnezzar is a poem. A monument. A swarm of killer bees let loose in the halls of the alphabet. Anyway, back to the point, Nebuchadnezzar and his Babylonians had already invaded Jerusalem eleven years earlier, but after looting the Temple, filling their gunny-sacks with some of those ten thousand candlesticks, two hundred thousand trumpets, and forty thousand harps, they withdrew. They informed the city that it could maintain autonomy as long as it behaved. Ha. Fat chance. Proud little Jerusalem grew increasingly defiant, and, now, the dreaded Babylonian war machine was lighting up the suburban sky with some very nonentertaining fireworks.
"Jerusalem was destined to lie under siege for many months, during which time Mr. Stick failed to register a single auspicious omen in the clouds. As hunger, thirst, and disease overtook even the priests and priestesses, our stick finally was forgotten, abandoned on the Temple rooftop where they'd dropped him after one last futile sweep of the sky."
~
A San Antonio taxi driver with a degree in ichthyology was spinning green on "Wheel of Fortune," racking up big bucks in every category, but Buddy Winkler was barely watching. Buddy was reading a book, of all things, a book checked out with no little embarrassment from the Colonial Pines Public Library.
A bible usually lay open in front of him, on the SpaghettiO-spattered Formica or on the upholstered arm of his favorite easy chair (worn so thin that puffs of stuffing periodically launched themselves from it like seeds escaping a

milkweed pod). But Buddy didn't actually read the Bible, not anymore, he consulted it the way that an actor consults a cue card. He needed merely to glimpse the words, "And he opened the bottomless pit and there arose a smoke ..." to be off and running, blowing long-winded tenor riffs on his favorite subject, the End Days, the horrifying, blood-flooded terminus of history, the deluge of boiling guts that many claimed would wash away all sin and sinners and leave the universe squeaky clean forever.
On that March evening, however, the Reverend Buddy Winkler was reading a book. There was, in fact, on the dinette, a stack of books so tall it could have allowed a cat easy entry into any mockingbird nest in the neighborhood. Only one of those books held Buddy in its spell.
Buddy had sometimes suspected that God Almighty didn't quite approve of him, had found his service wanting, and had kumquatted him with boils, wired him with toothaches, to demonstrate his displeasure. But now the Lord had spoken to him, had given unto him a mission. Buddy felt vindicated (even if at that very moment there was in the middle of his chin a furuncle the size and temperature of an oven-baked hors d'oeuvre); felt both humble and heroic, and was more than ready to put his martyrish shoulder to the wheel. Trouble was, the Jews wouldn't cooperate. He had telephoned every rabbi in Richmond and Norfolk (the lone Jew living in Colonial Pines was an army officer stationed at nearby Fort Lee), to no avail. When he explained to them the essence of his mission, they had rudely intimated that he might be a crank. Buddy was as surprised as he was irritated. He thought the Jews wanted to rebuild the Temple. He thought they wanted the Messiah to come. Bloodied but unbowed, he went to the library to pick up some books on Judaism. That's when his eyes fell upon this other book, the one absorbing his evening.
Entitled Christian Wives: The Women Behind the Evangelists, it was written by James Schaffer and Colleen Todd. He didn't know why he checked out the blamed thing, let alone why he was reading it. When he read that Tammy Faye Bakker, spouse of superpreacher Jim Bakker, kept her husband's interest up by changing her wigs several times a day, his mouth fell open so wide that that bouchée on his chin gave him a stab of pain. And when he read that Mrs. Bakker kept her marriage exciting by never ever letting the Reverend Bakker see her without makeup, that she routinely wore false eyelashes and earrings to bed, well, he just let "Wheel of Fortune" roll on without him.
"Jezebel business," he kept saying to himself. "That there's flatout Jezebel business." Small wonder, he thought, that Jim Bakker and his associates had

fallen from grace. When the most powerful preachers in the land take unto them painted hussies as their lawful wedded wives, then surely the Age of Wickedness is reaching its apogee. Where is the sanctuary that is safe from Satan, Satan in his most insidious form: the Whore of Babylon? Were he, Buddy Winkler, foremost evangelist of the Southern Baptist Voice of the Sparrow Network, were he to take unto him a wife. ... He caught himself. What was he thinking?
At that instant, there was a rapping at his door. "Damnation!" he swore. "It's Verlin and Patsy." If Patsy caught him reading that book ...! Frantically, Buddy shoved Christian Wives under the sofa. It was not until he was about to unlatch the screen that he realized that there was bulging in his trousers, the oldest story of man, a tome that would slide beneath no furniture, an opus that he could not hide.
~
"Nebuchadnezzar was a patient man. That much he had in common with inanimate objects. Month after month, he strolled along the rampart with which his troops had encircled Jerusalem, his big Babylonian nose in the air. When the stench from inside the walls became intense enough that he could assume half of the inhabitants must be dead, he ordered his men to erect their breaching engines. They met scant resistance as they battered down the vulnerable northern wall.
"Well, when the breach in the wall was accomplished and the boys from Babylon streamed through the narrow streets, our old hand-painted stick, who'd been watching from the Temple roof, prone upon a sheet of sun-warmed gold, did something that, except under the most rare and surreptitious conditions, no object had done since the evolutionary development of human beings on earth, had not done in more than a million years. He got up and ran.
"The reason behind his radical act, I can only guess. Maybe he was just fed up with all that back and forth nonsense, maybe he didn't see any reason why he had to go down with the ship. It could be there wasn't any logical reason, or if there was, its origins were in the stars. It wasn't a piece of cake, I know that. An enormous amount of effort was required to set forces in motion that had lain dormant for so long. Certain subatomic particles had to be coerced to change direction, to orbit paths previously untraveled. Yet, in barely thirty minutes of human subjective time, Mr. Stick was clattering down the steps toward the

Temple's main courtyard.
"Bippity-bopping past the emaciated corpses of priests and priestesses with
whom he'd once shared a mutual dependence, he crossed the vestibule and entered the great hall. As luck would have it, Miss Shell, all wrapped up real pretty in purple linen, rested upon a pedestal of white stone at the far end of the hall. Had she been inside the Holy of Holies, he would have been unable to pry open its heavy gold doors and get to her. Miss Shell isn't going into any detail about this, but somehow Mr. Stick persuaded her to invoke her own powers of mobility and flee with him. He blew in her ear, for all I know.
"Miss Shell put up some initial resistance. Many females do, I'm told. She pointed out that the Babylonians were devout worshippers of Ishtar—the goddess Astarte under another name—and that no sanctified relic of the Great Mother religion should have anything to fear from Babylon. Mr. Stick countered that soldiers are soldiers, from any culture, in any age. Soldiers like to hack and break and rape and burn, and when they are in their invasion frenzy, nothing, living or inanimate, is sacred to them. And anyway, it wasn't fear that had caused him to bolt. It was . . . something else.
"She joined him.
"Heading southward, away from the advancing invaders and not really caring, in the exhilaration of flight, that a half-starved Jeremiah had witnessed them and begun jumping up and down, they made their way to the Mount of Olives, and from its summit, in the sketchy shadow of a stripped-bare orchard tree, they looked on as the Temple was first plundered, then battered, then torched. Call it King Solomon's Temple, call it Hiram's Temple, it must have been one magnificent structure, that First Temple; opulent beyond the wildest Beverly Hills daydream; and the very heart and lungs, hub and corolla, anchor and balloon of the fated nation of Israel. The Babylonians fairly quickly reduced it to cinders. Then they trampled the cinders. Not one stone from it has ever been found."
~
"Some women have bedroom eyes," said Boomer Petway. "My wife has bedroom hair."
Boomer winked at Ellen Cherry. They were moored in a trailer park in North Dakota. A small crowd had gathered to gawk at the Airstream turkey.

Some in the crowd had let their attention be diverted by the largely ceremonial gesture of Ellen Cherry running a comb through her curls. Ellen Cherry sat on the Airstream doorstep, sawing and raking with the comb. The comb was bent nearly double from the strain.
"Before it was captured by the Commies," Boomer said to a housewife with mousy bangs, "her hair was as straight as yours. KGB tortured it for days, but it wouldn't tell."
"Wouldn't tell what?" asked the woman.
"What happened to your hair?" asked her twelve-year-old son.
Boomer actually blushed. His bald spot flared like the head of a match. For
a moment, it rivaled the setting sun, reflected now by the turkey's silver fuselage. Ellen Cherry giggled. "He doesn't like to talk about his war experiences,"
she said. "But I assure you, his hair didn't spill the beans, either."
Squeezing past her, Boomer went inside. "Getting chilly out here," he said. "His head gets cold," Ellen Cherry told the boy in a conspiratorial tone.
They both laughed, then she followed her husband into the turkey. He was in the galley, rummaging through cupboards.
"What you said about spilling beans gave my stomach ideas," he said, rummaging.
"If you're looking for pork and beans, there's actually some in there," said she.
"Where?"
"They're in there. There's a can of beans that's been sitting on my shelves for years. I swear, I've moved with those beans three different times. Guy in Seattle gave 'em to me when he graduated from the art school. Before that, they sat on his shelf for years. Those poor beans are so old they'll probably give you crude oil instead of gas."
"They're not here."
"Well, I don't ..."
"I know what happened to 'em. We left 'em in that cave." "No."
"Yeah, we did."
"Beans, too?"
"Yep."
"Are you sure, Boomer?"
" 'Course, I'm sure. I have a photogenic memory."

~
Can o' Beans watched the last tangerine peel of dusk swirl down the drain behind the mountains. It was completely dark now. It was time.
When he/she considered that Painted Stick and Conch Shell were the sole surviving oddments from the great Temple of Jerusalem, they seemed all the more precious and wondrous, and he/she felt all the more sorrowful to part company with them. For one thing, there were many questions left unanswered. For another, there was a unique and perhaps momentous adventure under way from which he/she was now excluded. Ah, well . . .
There was plenty still to be thankful for. What was a can of beans but a pawn in the game of consumption? From field to factory, from market to household, from cook pot to lunch plate, the destiny of a can of beans was as sealed as it was simple. Ultimate destination: rust heap and sewage pond. Yet, he/she had managed to escape the norm, to taste a freedom unimagined by others of his/her "lowly" station. Moreover, were the lives of most humans really any better? When humans were young, they were pushed around in strollers. When they were old, they were pushed around in wheelchairs. In between, they were just pushed around.
The thick veil that shields a being from the transformative and tricky light of liberty, from the dizzy incandescence of self-determination, that veil had been briefly parted for Can o' Beans. Obviously, freedom's glare is too bright for many. They panic when any sudden gust lifts the hem of the brocade. Eyes blinking frantically, they'll cling with their last broken nail to the protective folds of social control. A few, among them Can o' Beans, bask in the glow. It warms them in hidden and unexpected places that might have been forever dark and cold.
Of course, like the cliché moth courting the trite candle, the lit-up libertarian runs a constant risk. Is it not finer, however, to sizzle whole in the flame of freedom than to slowly stew to pieces in one's own diminishing juices, constrained and constricted before the veil? Can o' Beans thought so. Out of the sauce pan and into the fire! That was this can's credo. Were it not for the burden that he/she would surely be to the others, he/she would tackle the road to the Middle East regardless of his/her handicap! Alas . . .
They made a sled for Can o' Beans out of aspen bark and loops of grass. Painted Stick pulled it. When a rock, log, or steep incline blocked its path,

Conch Shell pushed from behind. Lying back, its wound open to the moon, the bean can let itself be dragged, bumpy mile after bumpy mile, until, toward dawn, the band of objects arrived at a weedy churchyard on the outskirts of a small Wyoming town.
"Fare you well, Can o' Beans. Thank you for your sage counsel regarding this bizarre land of yours."
Painted Stick, so charismatic, so primal, so difficult to know. Goodbye.
"The Goddess shall monitor your fortunes, dearest noble vessel."
Conch Shell, lovely siren, still nurturing, charming, offering hope. Goodbye.
"See ya in the funny papers, perfesser."
Not if I see you first, vulgar fellow, but persist in your candor and enthusiasm. Goodbye.
"Boo-hoo-hoo."
Spoon. Brush those sentimental globules from your elegant ladle. Goodbye, Miss Spoon.
Since it was Painted Stick's intention to lead his party beyond the village before daybreak, the good-byes were not drawn out. From the weeds beside the little whitewashed church where they deposited Can o' Beans, he/she watched his/her erstwhile companions bounce, toddle, and scurry along until they disappeared, one by one—Spoon last, looking back through her tears—into a ditch. The ditch was running with snowmelt, littered with filthy newspaper, shreds of tire rubber, and beer cans as empty as the bean can surely would be soon, but the small pilgrims let themselves be swallowed up by it as though it were a glory road. Oh, strange are the routes to Jerusalem!
~
We're here about the miracle, Bud," said Verlin.
"Why, bless your souls. Come right in." Buddy Winkler was so flattered that he forgot, as quickly as he had noticed it, his Christian Wives hard-on.
"Yes sirree," Patsy chimed in, eyeballing his protruding fly but resisting commentary on it, "I reckon you heard about the miracle?"
Buddy's eyes narrowed with disappointment and suspicion. "Now what is it that y'all are talkin' about? What kind of miracle? Where?"
"A religious visitation," Verlin explained. "Out there on the Chesterfield

road somewheres."
Strongly conflicting emotions seized Buddy Winkler. On the one hand, the
possibility of a religious miracle right there in the county excited and encouraged him. On the other, he had to worry whether this alleged visitation might not steal the thunder from his own recent vision—and the mission it had generated. He was hoping that Verlin and Patsy, his congregation and, if the Voice of the Sparrow NetwoTk approved, his radio audience, would soon be moved to support that mission with their personal checks.
Now, here Verlin and Patsy were telling him that some woman had folks in a tizzy because for the fourth night in a row, her neighbor's porch light was casting the shadow of a bearded man on her standup freezer.
"It's on the local news," Verlin said. "Ever' preacher in the area's been out there. We thought sure they woulda called you."
"Phone's broke," said Buddy. "I think one of them rabbis put a whammy on it."
"That's a crying shame," said Patsy. "We thought you'd of been on this miracle like a hobo on a ham sandwich."
It was nearly ten at night by the time they found the woman's house, but more than sixty people were milling about her carport, which was where the freezer stood.
"It's him," proclaimed somebody in a loud whisper. "It's Jesus!" Buddy, however, was of the opinion that the shadow looked more like Willie Nelson.
"Or else Castro," Verlin suggested. As for Patsy, she said, none too softly, "When the Good Lord shows up, we may rest assured it is not gonna be on a major appliance."
~
Shortly before eleven o'clock that morning, cars, dozens of cars, began pulling into the churchyard. Can o' Beans was elated. What splendid timing that there would be a wedding on his/her very first day at the church! If his/her luck continued, he/she might be clattering behind a honeymoon car by noon.
With effort, the bean can stood upright. The dent in its side threw it off balance, making walking difficult, but it wobbled toward a more conspicuous spot near the front steps, where it might attract the attention of someone requiring its services in the nuptial parade, I wonder if they'll have a can opener

on them? thought the container. Never had it imagined that it might form the words "can opener" with such positive anticipation. Fatalistic calm, yes, but hardly glee.
Yet, here it was, practically longing for the singing blade. Now that its fortunes had come to this, now that the greatest opportunity in the history of canned vegetables had been lost, it was anxious to play out its hand, to embrace the fate to which, prior to gaining mobility, it had been equanimously resigned. Can o' Beans turned a complete circle, hoping to get a look at the bride. A thin orange rivulet of sauce, like a thread from a volcano's bloomers, unfurled from the vent in his/her side, alerting the antennae of nearby ants.
It was then that the hearse drove up. Followed by the military Jeep carrying the color guard.
Can o' Beans staggered back into the tall weeds and lay down again. Forty yards away, mourners would be laying down for all eternity, or at least for a sufficiently long time, a local boy who'd let his young body be punctured and splayed by the insatiable can opener of the Middle East.
~
"We could cross over into Canada," Ellen Cherry proposed, "and come down into New York by way of Montreal."
"Nah," said Boomer. "Them people up there call their cheese fromage." He made a poison-bottle face.
"1 see your point," she said, humoring him. "Fromage, indeed. That's enough to keep me away from the snack table."
"Sooner or later," said Boomer, "I'd like to ease this baby into Chicago."
Ellen Cherry glanced out the galley window. It was quite dark now, but several people were still studying the roast turkey. The people wielded flashlights and behaved as if they were inspectors from the Center for Poultry Abuse.
"Why Chicago?" she asked. She knew that it wasn't the Chicago Art Institute that was beckoning him. Ellen Cherry knew that her husband wasn't licking his muscular chops over the Chicago Museum of Contemporary Art.
"Well, I'd kinda like to see where they held the Saint Valentine's Day massacre."
Just look in on any married woman on February fourteenth, she thought.

But she said, "What else?"
"The hospital where Dutch Schultz died."
"Oh, right, Dutch Schultz. Wasn't he the boy who saved the community by
sticking his finger in the dike?"
Boomer looked at her as if she had referred to their dinner as macaroni-
and-fromage.
"Sorry, hon. Guess I was thinking of a different story. You're obviously
talking about 'Dutch Schultz and the Silver Skates.'"
Boomer took a long, long swallow of beer. She must be getting her dot, he
thought. Ellen Cherry called her period her "dot." She gets like this right before her dot.
For all practical purposes, we're going to leave them now, Boomer Petway and Ellen Cherry Charles, we're going to leave them in a North Dakota trailer park, ringed by overstuffed midwesterners with flashlights; leave them finishing supper at the Airstream dinette, Boomer thinking that if her "dot" was coming on he'd better hurry and sweet-talk her into the sack, since she was protective of the sheets once the monthly pot began to percolate (talk about your Valentine's massacre); Ellen Cherry thinking, wondering, if now that she was married and moving to New York, was she going to suffer more, or less, for her art—and if she suffered less, would she paint less, or more; and if she suffered more, would she paint more, or less; and if she painted less, would she paint better, or worse; and if she painted more, would she paint worse, or better, and did it matter so long as she wasn't waiting tables?
We're going to leave our newlyweds sitting there, thinking their private and, perhaps, all too disparate thoughts, and, except for a brief overview, when we catch up with them again more than a year will have passed, and their lives will have taken unexpected turns.
These pages were never meant to be a chronology of their travels across America, but rather a revelation of their indirect but indisputable link to Jerusalem, old and New, a city far from our shores, far from our life-styles, yet, it could be argued, a city in which each of us psychically dwells: Jerusalem, sacred and terrible, bloody and radiant, the most important town in America.
Suffice to say, their trip afforded them both pleasure and edification. With Boomer at the wheel, they continued to zigzag, to meander, at a pace that allowed them leisure for sexual intercourse with each other (time out for her

"dot") and social intercourse with their countrymen. They did, by the way, visit Chicago, where Ellen Cherry executed a tiny painting of the street corner where the gangster John Dillinger was gunned down (Dutch Schultz, it turned out, died in New Jersey) and presented it to Boomer as a wedding gift. He shed a couple of muscular tears. Then he took her dancing.
At journey's completion, in Manhattan, they had telephoned her parents and reported that all across the continent, folks seemed to be talking about just three things: AIDS, the Middle East, and the Final Four. AIDS was a fatal, as yet incurable, disease. The Middle East, although capricious in its daily ups and downs, seemed to be firmly connected somehow in people's minds with "the end of the world." The Final Four was the culminating event of the postseason collegiate basketball tournaments (then under way), and by its very name—it logically might have been dubbed the Top Four or even the First Four— conveyed, not unlike AIDS and the Middle East, a sense of finality, entropy, apocalypse, something forcibly drawing to a close. Thus, the newlyweds concluded, America had termination on the brain like a tumor. Endings, happy or otherwise; exits, dramatically correct or not; climaxes, not to be confused with orgasms, dominated their thoughts. Their minds were on end, so to speak.
"Bud'll be pleased as punch," said Patsy.
Verlin got on the line. "How'd that, what do they call it, Dura-Torque suspension system, hold up?"
"Like ridin' on mashed potatoes," testified Boomer.
"Figures," said Verlin.
Speaking of the roast turkey, wherever they stopped it, coast to coast,
onlookers had invariably inquired, "What're you selling?" "Who do you represent?" "What company are you doing this for? Armour's?" "Are we on TV?" It was a sad commentary, but people simply could not accept that the giant entrée was not an advertising gimmick, a promotional stunt.
"They don't get it," complained Boomer. "Can't they comprehend that not ever'thing's done for a paycheck? That sometimes you just make a thing 'cause you wanna see how it'll turn out, 'cause you have a feeling in your gut that it oughta be made?"
Ellen Cherry regarded him then with something barely short of admiration. She regarded him in the cardboard ray of newfound optimism. This bozo might be capable of understanding art, after all, thought she.

~
Forward! March! Single file, in step, hup two three four (five six seven eight nine ten eleven twelve—each had three pairs of legs), rotating their twitchy feelers like parallel filaments in Salvador Dali light bulbs, a formation of licorice-backed ants (a throbbing artery of blues notes, a line of aardvark cocaine) advanced on leaky Can o' Beans the way that hundreds of columns of warriors, over the years, have advanced on Jerusalem.
Fastened to its rocky hillsides with hooks both physical and abstract, Jerusalem could only stand and fight. Can o' Beans, however, by wobbling a yard in one direction, toddling a yard in another, could manage to evade the regimental ants. That's the weakness of bureaucrats, he/she thought, with a grin. They just can't hit a moving target.
The ants were dressed in black, like the people inside the church, an irony not wasted on Can o' Beans. In truth, it made him/her a little uneasy, but he/she joked about it. "You don't think ants are stuffy?" he/she asked a nearby brick. "Why, not even William F. Buckley would wear a tuxedo to a picnic." Possessing no more of a sense of humor than the ants, the brick looked blank, and Can o' Beans doddered off a yard to the left. Those evasive tactics interfered but marginally with the fascinated attention he/she paid to the funeral service.
Like a deceased Italian mama damned to make pasta for the demons in hell, the minister's wife pulled strands of death spaghetti from a wheezy old organ. Resisting the temptation to toss in a few brimstone meatballs, the minister wove a tinsel garland from the various bromides of sympathy and laid it upon the bowed heads of the mourners. He used words such as "heroism," "sacrifice," and "eternal reward," while the heads bobbed with sobbing, like corks in a popular fishing hole. Later, they carried the broken skeleton (yearning in its bones for rock 'n' roll) out back to the cemetery, dipped an American flag over it, fired shots in the air (as if it were the clouds' fault the boy had died), and, while a lonely bugle wounded the spring morning with sounds more mournful than a midnight freight, they slipped it below the vegetable layer into the mineral earth, to be compressed into gas for the jets of a future that Wyoming had not imagined yet.
Taking all this in, while dodging the ant advance, Can o' Beans wondered if human animals didn't set themselves up to suffer excruciating grief, most of which could have been avoided with a slight expenditure of imaginative thought.

Without quite realizing it (being ignorant of the ramifications of Salome's dance), the bean can had identified the veil of political illusion—and the reluctance of humankind to part it—as the reason behind the morning's sad occasion.
Lost now to family, buddies, girlfriend, rabbit hound, society, and himself, this poor young sailor had fallen—not very many miles from Jerusalem— understanding virtually nothing of the situation in the Middle East. He probably believed it involved a struggle between right and wrong, good and evil, freedom and oppression. That was his second mistake. His third mistake was in trusting that even if he didn't understand the situation, his leaders did. His first—and worst— mistake was blindly doing what he was told to do. Without questioning their methods or their motives, he allowed politicians to make the decisions that led to his early demise.
What is politics, after all, but the compulsion to preside over property and make other people's decisions for them? Liberty, the very opposite of ownership and control, cannot, then, result from political action, either at the polls or the barricades, but rather evolves out of attitude. If it results from anything, it may be levity.
Inanimate objects, destined to spend their existence in outwardly passive and obedient behavior, understood perhaps more sharply than humans that true freedom was an internal condition not subject to the vagaries of politics. Freedom could not be owned. Therefore, it could not be appropriated. Or controlled. It could, however, be relinquished. The Wyoming sailor had surrendered his soul long before he sacrificed his body. And that inner death—in the eyes of Can o' Beans, at any rate—was more lamentable than the physical death that followed.
In the not too distant future, in some abrupt movement of the dance, the third veil, the veil that permitted political expediencies (usually transitory, often stupid, regularly corrupt) to masquerade as timeless universal expressions of freedom, virtue, and good sense, could conceivably fall away. Young persons, from then on, might be more particular about the "freedoms" they would be willing to defend, thus preserving their souls and—if quick enough of wit and foot—their bodies, as well.
Meanwhile, individuals had to yank at the disguise as best they could; to pull, poke, and peek, and finally, when they had sufficiently penetrated it, to take command of their lot. Assuming responsibility for one's lot was no nap on the beach. Ask Can o' Beans. Tantalized by the leaking sauce, by the sugar and corn

syrup in that sauce (perhaps in the same way that industrial nations were tantalized by Middle Eastern oil) the ants were relentless in their pursuit. They were starting to wear the bean can down.
But just as the individual usually can outwit the herd, the bashed-in bean can, in a desperate ploy, suddenly gathered its remaining strength and leapt wildly, clumsily into the middle of a puddle that had formed when the cemetery caretaker, cleaning up after the service, had overwatered the graveside flowers. The lower half of its label was soaked and beginning to become unglued, but what the heck, there were compensations. Frustrated ants lined the shore, cursing the Creator who, in crafting them as the most efficient creatures on earth, had somehow neglected to teach them how to swim.

the fourth veil
~
This is the room of the wolfmother wallpaper, the room where the black virgin fell down the chimney and burned a hole in the linoleum. Countless are the antelope hooves that have pounded this floor. No wonder the linoleum is worn.
This is the room where the black virgin was kidnapped, later to be caged in the grand mosque at Mecca. After all these years, they are still interrogating her about the location of true north. "Why won't the polestar stand still?" is what they want to know. That and ... One Other Thing.
In this room, the salamander was squashed between the pages of the rhyming dictionary, thereby changing poetry forever. Here, Salome walked around with a big red fish held high up over her head. Old Father spanked her with a ballet slipper, sending her to bed without milk or honey. Dance was changed in this room, too.
So this, then, is the chamber of the hootchy-kootch. Its bathtub full of orchids. Its closet full of smoke.
And on the wolfmother wallpaper, little beads of dew.
~
Maybe Ellen Cherry Charles didn't look like a million dollars, but nobody could deny that she looked like the tax on a million dollars. Raoul, the doorman, was impressed.
For months, Raoul had observed her moping about the Upper West Side in sneakers, paint-spattered sweatshirts, and denim skirts, unrouged lips so pendulous in their pout she could have picked pennies off the street without bending over. Yet, here she was on a drizzly autumn afternoon pulling a new red vinyl slicker over a tight-fitting red wool dress, elevated by the sort of heels that Raoul called "follow-me-home-and-fuck-me shoes," her usual frown sweet- talked into an approximation of pleasantness by the hedonistic pigments in her

lip gloss and eyeshadow. All that vivid makeup under all those unruly curls would have activated every Jezebel detector in Colonial Pines. Raoul didn't mind one bit, however, although something in his subconscious did provoke him to run a slow thumb over the crucifix he wore. Ellen Cherry, noticing the gesture, actually smiled, mainly because of the salsa buildup observable beneath the thumbnail.
"Mmmm, man, you looking so fine, man," said Raoul. "Get you a taxi?" "No, thanks, Raoul. My boss is sending a car for me."
"Yeah? Didn't know you worked. Where you working, Miz Charl?" When Raoul opened the door for her, the first thing she noticed was a teal
Volvo station wagon hissing by in the wet. Instantly, she was reminded of a similarly colored Volvo, that one a sedan, that the roast turkey had passed eighteen months previously. The driver of that car had annoyed Boomer somehow, and in order to distract him, prevent him from launching into a tirade, she had said, "Volvos are supposed to be the safest cars on the road. Why is that, hon?"
"Damned if 1 know," Boomer had said, fuming. "There's probably something in the seat covers that draws the toxins outta your body."
Ellen Cherry became lost in memory, and to her face returned a sadness that no eyeshadow could console.
Raoul stood watching her. His baggy raincoat was so dirty a cash crop could have been grown in its folds, but atop his head sat a crisp, expensive, absolutely spotless porkpie hat. Raoul wore the hat every day. "I say, where you going to work, Miz Charl, looking so fine?"
"Huh?" Ellen Cherry snapped back into present time, the time of laying aside grief and art, the time of a new beginning, a fresh opportunity in the food service field. "Oh." She looked at Raoul brightly for a moment. "Jerusalem," she said.
*
A limousine as sleek and potent as a vitamin capsule stopped in front of the building. Raoul and the driver took turns helping Ellen Cherry into the backseat. A lot of help for a girl that small.
"Jerusalem, shit man, Jerusalem," muttered Raoul as the car pulled away. Raoul wondered if the blanquita Jezebel was not woofing him in some way. In Raoul's mind, the name Jerusalem evoked a place vague and sacrosanct, a city on this earth but not of this earth, a place watched over by angels, but where bad things happened, man. Even the Pope didn't go there. Jerusalem was the most

holy and spooky place in the world, man. Raoul closed his big brown eyes to picture Jerusalem. He saw rocks and robes and gold domes and donkeys. He didn't see any angels, but he knew they were hanging around. Jerusalem was where it all went down, man. It was connected to heaven like Spanish Harlem was connected to Puerto Rico.
Returning to the lobby of the Ansonia, Raoul removed his porkpie hat and flicked raindrops off it, carefully, one by one. Flicking, he wondered if this "Jerusalem" where Mrs. Charles worked was a club. Maybe it was an art gallery. He remembered that she was an artist. Like her loco husband, before he split. Maybe she worked in a shop that sold religious art. In a dress like that? With an ass like that? No, man. Forget it, man. A P.R. girl would go to church, even, in shoes like hers, but not a blanquita. High heels, they put a woman that much closer to heaven, but gringos didn't see it that way. Riding to "Jerusalem" in a limo, man? Bu'shit.
Raoul took a pencil from his filthy raincoat and scribbled on a damp notepad:
The Virgin Mary ride on a donkey Her son Jesus he ride on a cross Mick Jagger ride on a Concorde jet And a rolling stone gather no moss
Maybe he would record a song for Mrs. Charles. Mrs. Charles would hear it on the radio. Then she would fuck him, man.
In the drizzle, the limousine shot through Central Park like a blow dart shooting through Amazon foliage, whooshing toward the haunch of an unsuspecting sloth. It was the first time that Ellen Cherry had ridden in a rubber- tired vehicle since the turkey changed hands.
Tomorrow, she would be once again a subway passenger, but tonight was special, and she labored to feel special about it.
Tonight was the grand opening of Isaac & Ishmael's. Rather, it was the grand reopening. Isaac & Ishmael's originally opened back in June. Within a fortnight, it was firebombed. Now, damage repaired, security improved, it was ready to try again.
Personally, Ellen Cherry wasn't particularly worried about working at the I & I. She would, starting tomorrow, be working day shift. The time-honored safety of lunch. The dinner staff and the cocktail staff were said to be as nervous as a Q's tail in an alphabet stampede. They were reasonably positive that the

restaurant would be targeted again.
No less than seven organizations, after all, had claimed responsibility for
firebombing the I & I. They included three militant Zionist groups, three outlawed Islamic cults, and a fundamentalist Christian gang known as the Little Matches of Jesus. Taking as their credo these words that Luke (12:49) attributed to Our Savior—"I have come to set fire to the Earth"—the Matches had been sneaking about for a year or more, torching "ungodly" establishments, mainly in Brooklyn and Queens. They were sometimes referred to as the Holy Pyromaniacs or Firebugs for Christ.
In reality, police investigators suspected the I & I firebombing to have been instigated by an eighth organization, a coalition of ultraorthodox Zionists and evangelical Christians incorporated as the Third Temple Platoon, Inc. One of the group's principal spokesmen was the Reverend Buddy Winkler of Colonial Pines, Virginia.
Uncle Buddy had found his Jews.
~
An Arab and a Jew opened a restaurant together across the street from the United Nations . . .
It sounds like the beginning of an ethnic joke. But Isaac & Ishmael's was no funny story. Oh, it had its humorous aspects, as any worthwhile enterprise probably does, and neither the Arab nor the Jew was a stuffy old toad, yet the I & I was an earnest undertaking, an idealistic undertaking, perhaps a heroic undertaking.
An Arab and a Jew decided to open a restaurant together. It was to be a gesture of unusual cooperation, a symbolic reconciliation, an exemplary statement on behalf of peace—in the Middle East and beyond. If it could be demonstrated on a small scale that traditional, "natural" enemies could join together for a common purpose profitable to both, then might it not inspire adversaries on a global level to look into one another's eyes, to explore avenues of mutually beneficial friendship? That was the rhetoric, that was the hope.
"You're hearing of cosmic love?" asked Spike Cohen, the Jewish partner, the "Isaac" in Isaac & Ishmael's. "Well, between the Jews and the Arabs there's cosmic hate, already. So much to hate, the hate has permeated the dust, the hate has risen to the stars what are up above. It's no easy thing to reduce such a hate,

but the easy things I have done already. For the sake of humanity, the sake of our grandchildren, my pal Abu and I confront together this most difficult."
"My father used to say," put in Roland Abu Hadee (the I & I's "Ishmael," obviously) "that 'In Allah's garden there grow all kinds of radishes.' Although I myself do not share in my father's concept of Allah, I have always been fond of the saying. In fact, I wanted to call our restaurant Two Radishes, but my friend, Spike, did not think so much of that name. Isaac and Ishmael's was our first compromise. It is a clever one, is it not? You see what can be done?"
Indeed. On the other hand, would eight separate organizations have been interested in firebombing a restaurant named Two Radishes?
Two varieties of radish opened a restaurant together across the street from the United Nations. It was destined to become, on two separate occasions and for two entirely different reasons (neither of them having anything to do with food), the most famous restaurant in New York City. It was called Isaac & Ishmael's.
Why Isaac & Ishmael's instead of Spike & Abu's or Cohen & Hadee's? Mythology. The purple exhaust of myth, through whose plumes events and forces too huge, too complex to easily explain, crystallize into human perspective.
As Brahma, the great father god of India, moved westward with the spice caravans, his name evolved into Abram. Over the generations, he was given skin and teeth and bushy eyebrows, and became known as Abraham. However more corporeal, the Semitic version of Brahma maintained his status as patriarch.
Before he wandered from Mesopotamia, birthplace of our species, into the land of Canaan, looking for the polestar (which had gradually moved out of its usual—many had thought invariable—place in the northern sky), Abraham married his half-sister, Sarai (Sarah). Until the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah carried it to such orgiastic extremes that they lost their federal funding, incest was an acceptable practice in Middle Eastern myth, if not in everyday reality. When a year or more passed and Sarai had not conceived, she presented her husband with a little bundle of a different sort of joy, i.e., her servant girl, Hagar. Abraham took Hagar into his tent, where he wasted no time impregnating her. The son she bore him was dubbed Ishmael.
Sometime later, while in southern Canaan digging wells, Abraham managed finally to knock up Sarai. "Well Diggers Do It Deeper," the bumper sticker read. Sarai's baby boy was Isaac.
Now that she and Abraham had a son of their own, Sarai gave reign to repressed jealousy and kicked Hagar and Ishmael out of camp. The concubine

and her tot roved in the wilderness, eventually settling in the desert next to what is now Saudi Arabia. When he came of age, Ishmael was married off by Hagar to an Egyptian girl, and from that union, legend has it, all Arabs are descended.
Isaac, following a narrow brush with the sacrificial knife, went on to wed his cousin Rebekah, and their offspring became known as Hebrews, a Semitic word for "wanderers."
Thus were the lines drawn. Isaac and Ishmael, mythic half-brothers, fellow nomads, fathered by the mythic proto-patriarch to beget the Jews and the Arabs, respectively; forever joined with a blood rope of rivalry and loathing; slandering, slighting, and slaughtering one another, century after century, beneath the Middle Eastern sun.
And now, Isaac and Ishmael, pseudonyms for a couple of guys trying to demonstrate that two varieties of the radish family could nourish in a common patch, could even cross-pollinate—if only hot-headed horseradishes would leave them alone.
Regular customers—and during its second period of fame the restaurant did acquire customers—referred to Isaac & Ishmael's as "the I and I." Its staff called it that, as well, except for Ellen Cherry Charles, who usually spoke of her place of employ as "Jerusalem," due to the fact that its proprietors were so in love with that distant town that they were inclined to rhapsodize about it night and day.
In the paeans of Spike Cohen and Roland Abu Hadee, Jerusalem was as dreamlike and inaccessible as it was in the musings of Raoul the doorman, even though Raoul's notion of the Holy City stemmed from lurid and inaccurate illustrations in a Spanish-language edition of the King James Bible, whereas Spike and Abu had not only visited Jerusalem on several occasions, but also had the means to do so again. They might, in fact, have opened their restaurant in the city of their dreamy longing if only the Israeli government had granted permission.
In the end, the gentlemen were pleased with their location. While the site may have been their second choice, its proximity to United Nations Headquarters lent the I & I a semiofficial aura; tying it, symbolically at least, to the center of world aspirations to unity and peace. In addition, their situation in the New York market afforded them far, far more media exposure than they would have received in Jerusalem. They behaved as though the UN neighborhood had been their preference all along.
In no way, however, did that prevent them from mooning about Jerusalem

as if Jerusalem were a rich and gorgeous woman who would take them as lovers the minute she recovered from her disease.
~
Joshua Cohen, who became Spike, was born into a poor, Yiddish-speaking family on Manhattan's Lower East Side. He was twelve years old before he ever saw a human toe other than his mama's or his own. We must now learn why.
In the snowy winter of 1923, his paternal grandparents and their three children had fled Russia on foot, escaping a brief but cruel pogrom organized by Chekists in Kiev. They continued across Poland into Germany, where they had relatives. Grandfather Cohen was a tailor, and his wife had gathered up every scrap of cloth in his shop to sew warm, many-layered coats and caps for the flight. Their shoes, however, were street shoes of the thinnest leather. When the family, arrived at last in Germany, their feet were so frostbitten that their toes had to be amputated. Each toe on every Cohen foot. Fifty toes in all, fifty green- sheened ice worms, tossed like fish bait into the garbage pails of a hospital in Berlin.
Berliners called them Die Krebs Familíe, "the Crab Family," because of the manner in which they walked, scurrying about sideways on the tips of their stubs, sometimes pitching forward onto their faces. Embarrassed by those giant land crabs in their midst, the Cohens' German relatives took up a collection and bought the toeless tribe passage to America.
When the middle child married, and he was the only one of the three to do so, he brought his bride to reside in the tenement above the Orchard Street tailor shop, where, tilting first to one side and then the other (they ambulated more erratically than Can o' Beans), the Cohens daily performed their crab dance of life. As a young boy, Joshua thought his mother's toes, long, rosy, and complete, were the most beautiful things on earth.
Recoiling from the clumsy clubs upon which the rest of the family staggered about, little Joshua gazed at his mother's feet, caressed his mother's feet, as if her feet had been carved from alabaster by a Renaissance genius, whereas in actual fact, they were rather ordinary specimens. As he grew older, his love for his mother's lower appendages expanded to include the feet, the whole, healthy feet, of women in general. Because bare feminine feet were not commonly on display in the Orchard Street ghetto and because outings to Coney

Island were few and far between, Joshua's podalic passions gradually were transferred to shoes. Women's shoes.
Showing his heels to the tailor's trade, an adolescent Joshua apprenticed himself to a cobbler. By the time he was twenty-one, he had opened a small shoe store on Delancey. By the time he was thirty-five, he was known as the Shoe King of Long Island, where, distancing himself from the crustaceous scootings on Orchard Street, he owned and operated dozens of footwear boutiques. By the time he was fifty, his chain—Golda Shoes (after his mama)—had spread upstate and into New Jersey and Connecticut.
Joshua Cohen was self-educated. In the area of history, he was quite well read. About midway through his career as a shoe store tycoon, he chanced upon, in a book about modern Japan, a photograph of a mother and daughter whose feet were almost eaten away by radiation sores. They were survivors of the atomic attack on Hiroshima. Joshua stared at the picture in nauseated horror. The picture affected him in two significant ways. To begin with, it awakened in him a feeling of deep sympathy for his father's family. He recognized for the first time that the Cohen land crabs, like the Hiroshima women, were victims of man's inhumanity to man. That, in turn, aroused in him a powerful revulsion toward war, persecution, terrorism, any sort of violence that might maim human flesh and bone, especially the cute flesh, the darling bones of female tootsies.
Consequently, Joshua Cohen became a pacifist, growing increasingly active as the years passed. Having assumed personal responsibility for the world's mutilated and missing toes, he marched, picketed, pamphleteered, and petitioned, protesting military action in Vietnam, in Afghanistan, in Nicaragua, El Salvador, and South Africa. As a Jew, he began to focus more and more on the situation in the Middle East, especially after a particularly enamoring sojourn in Jerusalem.
By the time, at age sixty, that he met Roland Abu Hadee, he was ready to turn over his retail empire to his only son (his wife, uncomfortable with his adoration of her feet, had left him after but ten months of marriage: one month, he was to say, for each of her toes) and devote his life to the cause of Middle Eastern peace.
He gave up his shoe stores, but not his affection for their inventory. At the tennis club or in coffee shops, when he and Abu were dreaming their restaurant; at the reservation desk playing host once the I & I actually opened; on the sidewalk tearfully surveying the burned-out dining room after the bombing; at those moments, as well as at so many others in between, he would find his eyes

straying from business at hand to fall upon the shod extremities of a nearby female (most often a stranger in the crowd), absentmindedly identifying designer and manufacturer; then, the mundane dispensed with, visually toying with a strap, say, or a bow, some laces, a tassel, a clasp, some studs; stroking from afar the various textures, slick or grainy, of calfskin, vinyl, or crocodile; finally, as if advancing from foreplay, tracing the lines of the yonic-lipped vessel: soft, fleshy swells, sleek animal musculature, insinuating curve of instep, giddy slope from heel to toe; the exact contours of the supple, rhythmic membrane that separates the exterior infinite from the interior particular, the infinity of movement, that is, from the relative quiescence of an object in space; that separates sweet and sweaty foot-meat from the broken glass and dog turds outside its protective shell.
Shoes, how did Cohen love thee? Let us count the ways.
Flats, heels, high heels, platforms, pumps, toe shoes, slippers, clogs, sling backs, loafers, moccasins, wedgies, oxfords, saddle oxfords, sneakers, sandals, go-go boots, Beatles boots, Birkenstocks, mules, Wallabees, granny boots, thongs, flip-flops, Timberlands, desert boots, Docksiders, cycling shoes, track shoes, huaraches, scuba flippers, wing tips, riding boots, Top-siders, espadrilles, high tops, golf shoes, stilettos, bowling shoes, snowshoes, clown shoes, Capezios, spikes, orthopedics, bucks, wading boots, ballet slippers, harem slippers, Japanese geta, Mary Janes, Hush Puppies, hiking boots, sabots, tap shoes, and galoshes. O shoe, leather ship that sails our cement rivers and woven seas, steering by the star of fashion, circumnavigating hostile reefs of tar and bubble gum; one hour, a tanker ferrying champagne to a playboy's sip; the next, a raft in the slime; bon voyage, bright barge! May you dock in calm closets, safe from the rape of shoe trees.
Caterpillars might sing of the terror of shoes, Spike Cohen sang of their delight. In his memory, his mother's plain black brogans were dessert dishes privileged to display the peach ice cream from which her surprising toes were molded. And, like Cinderella's prince, he instinctively knew the slipper to represent the cave by which the phallic hero enters the uterine underworld. To the boy on Orchard Street, Mercury's magic cobbler had had no monopoly on ankle wings.
If the I & I was dedicated to the preservation of humanity and its achievements, the loveliness of shoes must be counted among those achievements. Thus, Spike felt little or no guilt that his pacifist restaurateuring was subject to distraction by a passing pump. A true friend, Abu Hadee tolerated

the distractions, although he couldn't understand them. "To me," Abu confessed, "shoes are no more than tin cans. Shoes are the cans that feet come in."
Spike laughed at that remark. (A certain container of pork and beans might have enjoyed it, as well.) Friends could sneer, wives could flee, the fact remained that shoes were the Poli-grip that anchored the false teeth of his desire.
~
"A shadow does not belong to the object that casts it." That was one of Roland Abu Hadee's favorite quotes. His understanding of it was incomplete. He knew that it had something to do with the fact that shadows were produced by light, not objects; that a shadow lengthened, shortened, or disappeared altogether, relative to availability and position of light, even though the object remained motionless and unchanged. He knew that much, and as far as he was concerned, it was more than enough. The scientific implications—for that matter, the philosophical implications—didn't interest him. What mattered to Abu was the music of the sentence. "A shadow does not belong to the object that casts it." To Abu, it was a little poem. And in general, it was the poetics, the music of things that tossed his confetti.
He had been born in a city whose name was a little poem: Dar es Salaam. He grew up in Alexandria, whose vowels rise like yeast on the tongue. The languages the boy Abu spoke were the rather prosaic English and Greek—his father, you see, was an international shipping magnate, and those were the languages of that business—but the script he saw written all about him, on the signposts and facades of Alexandria, was musical, all right. It ran complicated scales on the optic nerve. Everywhere, the Arabic alphabet wiggled and popped, enlivening crumbling architecture with outbursts of linguistic jazz, notations from the DNA songbook, energetic markings as primal as grunts and as modem as the abstract electricity of synthesizer feedback.
Fascinated though he was by the volume, voltage, and velocity of this vermiform verbiage, this symphony of snake eyes, it wasn't until many years later—in Madison, Wisconsin—that he learned to read it particularly well.
Although his father was Syrian, his mother, Egyptian, and both, Moslems; although little Abu was made daily to pray, and to study the Koran, emphasis in the Hadee household was upon success in commerce, and to that purpose was he educated by his father's example, as well as by tutors from Britain and Greece.

His childhood circumstances were quite the opposite of Spike Cohen's. Abu, Roland Abu, was born with a silver spoon in his mouth (an expression that invariably caused our Miss Spoon to quiver with ill-concealed arousal). "In Alexandria," he liked to say, letting the vowels foam like fizz powder against his palate, "in Alexandria, we lived in the porcine penthouse." High on the hog. An acceptable arrangement, from the pig's point of view, since no Hadee ever sank fangs into ham. Oh, there was a period when a rebellious Abu entertained a diet of convenience-store weenies and Miller beer, but that was in Madison, Wisconsin, when his elevator was no longer stopping on the upper floors of the swine.
At age eighteen, Abu had been packed off to Harvard on an allowance that was probably triple what the college president earned. He fell in with some other well-heeled students, bought a fast car, and soon was spending more time in New York nightclubs than in the classroom. Raised on belly-dancing, it was but a short hop to the hootchy-kootch. He hickied the silhouette of crescent moons on the backsides of shimmy-shammy princesses all over Manhattan. When the dean called him in to inform him that he had flunked out, the tall young Arab was puffing a stogie that cost half as much as the office furniture and weighed more than the phone on the desk.
Duke University gave him a chance. Duke, after all, had gambled on Richard Nixon and Plucky Purcell. Dressing in zoot suits and sporting a mustache as thin as a crack in an espresso cup, Abu played the fool before bemused southerners, who allowed him to ogle their daughters in exchange for the drops of illegal absinthe he squirted into their juleps. Eventually, he squirted a fetus into a debutante, sealing his fate with the same liquid wax. The sheriff who escorted him to the city limits later referred to wild heathen gibberish and savage gnashing of teeth. Actually, it was merely a severely hung-over Abu trying to translate into Greek and faulty Arabic the musical line, the little poem, "Nigger, don't let the sun set on you in Durham County."
Next stop was UCLA, with its proximity to movie-star champagne and swimming pools large enough to drive stolen cattle trucks into, which he did so often he began to list it as a hobby on his resumé. He lasted one quarter at UCLA. Academic responsibilities behind him now, he was at liberty to pursue the course of full-time playboy. Abu and postwar Los Angeles seemed made for each other. One night, in an absinthe, champagne, and cocaine frenzy, he bit the right nipple off a Warner Brothers starlet and spit it into a bowl of blue-cheese chip dip. Even Hollywood was shocked.

The incident made page one of sleazy tabloids the world over. When the news reached Egypt, Hadee senior settled out of court for eighty thousand 1950 dollars, then cabled his errant son that he was disinherited and disowned. Abu scoffed. Convinced that his father would in time relent, he set about turning his bank account into one more phantom in a community of phantoms (phantom fortunes, phantom fame). As the cash ghosted out, his liver solidified. A dawn arrived when, after spraying a pink stucco duplex, six palm trees, and a passing poodle with a Cinerama of all-singing, all-dancing, Technicolor vomit, he hadn't enough money left for Pepto-Bismol.
"Help me," he cried. It was not a musical line, it was no little poem. And nobody paid attention. Not an Arab in Los Angeles would heed his pleas for aid. He had disgraced the race. His collect calls to Arab contacts around America were declined. "Infidel!" they would shout in the poor ears of the operator. Finally, a distant cousin in an outpost known as Madison, Wisconsin, offered him a job in his French restaurant—on condition that he work three years at minimum wage, during which time he must read the Koran for an hour each day and refrain from alcohol, pork, and the company of women. It was an offer he couldn't refuse.
Because he was tall, polished, cosmopolitan, and had studied at Harvard, Abu presumed that he would be made headwaiter or maître d'. He presumed erroneously. Upon arrival (via polished, cosmopolitan thumb) in Madison, he was led through the back door of the restaurant and straight to a mammoth sink full of dirty dishes. "There is a cot in the storeroom," his cousin said. "You can sleep there. Once the kitchen is spotless. And tomorrow, you shave off that stupid mustache."
Water simmered. Drains gurgled. Pipes knocked. Steam rose. Suds bubbled (no elegant Alexandrian vowels these harsh industrial bubbles!). Grease congealed. Scum collected. Islands of lettuce scraps and buoys of duck fat bobbed in the boil. Spatulas were caked with mousseline at volatile, whisks were encrusted with oeufs à la Bourguignonne, bulb basters were plugged with beurre d'anchois, and the dried batters that coated some baking dishes were like hardened deposits of lunar cement. The baking dishes blistered him, skillets blistered the blisters. Poultry shears, cheese graters, broken wine goblets, and metal disks from food mills joined forces with knives of all sizes to hunt down his hands in the murky waters and nick, puncture, scrape, and slice. Should the wounds commence to heal, steel wool and scouring powder ground the lids off of the scabs, exposing pink sores to heat and abrasion. As far up as his biceps,

his arms were shiny with grease; his face was steamed as red as a prawn, and his wrinkled fingers that so resembled the foreskins of aged hermits stunk perpetually of residual garlic, rancid oils, and garbage soup. His clothes were soaked with the same smelly brine, and upon any part of his anatomy at any time one was likely to discover soggy warts of cooked stuff, flecks of flora and fauna that no nature goddess would ever bless again.
For many, just to contemplate those torrid waters with their roiling foams, gobs of goop, organic effluvia, and hazardous mines of metal and glass would be the beginning of a descent into hell (a hell devised by Julia Child to punish Colonel Sanders). Indeed, the first few times that Roland Abu Hadee stared into that blowhole of a sink, he saw the pitiless orbs of Satan staring back, and as a sinister shock shook his stomach, he heard asbestos ghouls chuckle and piss. Holding his breath, closing his eyes, he plunged his hands into the mephistophilian broth—and instantly passed out.
It was the most wonderful thing that ever happened to him.
After about a week, when the biliousness and swooning spells subsided, dishwashing began to have a calming effect on him; more than that, a purifying effect; more, even, than that, a transformative effect. It was as if the dishwater, as gray and oily as a mobster's haircut, washed away his arrogant confusion. As he scoured pots, he likewise and unintentionally scoured his conscience, scoured the calluses from it so that he was resensitized to humanity. An alcoholic film dissolved, exposing, first, a layer of guilt, then a layer of dread. The guilt was understandable: nipple-snapping and all that. The dread was a surprise. Until his baptism in the frothy napalm of the sinks, he hadn't realized how terrible had been his dread of walking in his father's footsteps, of wearing the starched smile and octopus arms of an international businessman, of going about with a headful of numbers that neither sang nor scanned.
Slowly, a gentleness, a piety enveloped him. His Madison relatives attributed the change to the Koran, but it was the scalding vats that purged Abu, the sinks seething with submerged cutlery, drowned cockroaches, and floating boogers of sauce béarnaise. Wire brush ritualistically in hand, he would part the soapy veil and enter his underwater grotto in the manner of a pilgrim entering a sacred river to bathe. Beside a greasy Ganges of goose gunk, he laid his burdens down.
Three years passed. His bargain fulfilled, Abu took his leave of the pots and pans. A monk without a monastery, he wandered Madison, more than a little lost. In a kind of conditioned reflex of rebellion, he embarked on a binge of hot

dogs and beer, devoting his evenings to largely unsuccessful pursuit of University of Wisconsin coeds. Six months of this failed to provide a single hour of satisfaction. His savings spent, he returned to the restaurant and begged for his job back. "Fine," his cousin said. "But there are conditions. You must train in my kitchen as a chef. And you must marry my daughter."
Nabila was no beauty, true, but take a gander at Roland Abu Hadee. Tall and dark he might be, and he bore himself with quiet dignity, but his nose. . . ! Steam had permanently reddened his big Semitic beak until it looked like the prow of the S.S. Tomato, like a stop signal designed in a wind tunnel. How grand a catch was a bachelor whom the children of Madison had nicknamed "Rudolph! Rudolph! Rudolph!"? Moreover, what bride longed to be fondled by fingers so waterlogged they threatened to ooze cold fishy fluids from a hundred separate crinkles?
Pushed into wedlock, nevertheless, Nabila and Abu grew to like, and, eventually, to love each other. To become independent of her father, they saved their dimes and opened a falajel stand near the university campus. Profits were small but steady, the couple lived simply but happily. The falajel stand was a window onto the academic world that Abu had previously scorned. From the undergraduates, graduate students, and young instructors who were his primary customers, he picked up little poems of science, musical lines of law and art. In return, he treated them to descriptions, in his own fashion, of the Middle East, a geographical snapping turtle that even then had the American brain stem in its bite and would not let go.
"Egypt?" he would say, feeding chickpeas to the grinder. "Egypt is as hot as a gypsy honeymoon and as dry as scarab breath. Egypt looks at the world through cat's eyes. Egypt has a heart of green paste. With crocodile claws and mummy jewelry, Egypt scratched its name into the foundation stone of history. Before Islam, Egyptians thought only of immortality. Since Islam, they think only of life after death. What is the difference? To understand the difference, you must live for many months without moisture. Is the Middle East a matter of climate, then? Perhaps. The moon ..." With a cucumber the same size but opposite color of his nose, he pointed at the ethnic crescents that decorated his stand. "The moon is no more Islamic than it is Hindu or Eskimo. The lunar mirror simply reflects the hidden poetry in us all. The sun, however, is a Semite."
And so forth and so on.
The falafel stand window also provided a close-up view of the antiwar

demonstrations that rocked Madison during the 1960s. Watching his student friends brutalized by police and defamed by politicians in the pay of the military-industrial complex, he soon lost his detachment and sided with the forces of brotherly love. He took to closing his stand during demonstrations and joining the pacifists in the streets, a practice that disturbed Nabila because by then they had two babes to feed. As it turned out, he was frequently gassed (the tear gas usually drifted into the stand, anyhow) but seldom clubbed.
The Vietnam War ended. The years falafeled by. The children grew up. Abu kept an ear tuned to the music of things, kept an eye on the scoundrels in high places. He had been demonstrating in favor of a disarmament treaty on the day that an official letter arrived from Alexandria. Unbeknownst to him, his late father's will had set aside six million dollars for Abu, provided that, by age fifty- five, he had settled down and succeeded in business. Relatives contested Abu's right to the bequest. A falafel stand! After all! His attorney proved that Abu's stand had made a tiny profit every year since it opened. "Red nose, black ink," said Abu. He got the inheritance.
He took his wife to Jerusalem, the favorite city of his youth. They remained there a month and saw many poetic sights and some acts of violence.
"I will now read books and listen to music," he announced upon their return. "I will learn to play tennis, and I will work for world peace. For my Nabila, I will hire a maid. Two maids. They will vacuum her carpets and make her beds. I, however, I, Roland Abu Hadee, as usual, will wash the dishes."
~
When the limo deposited Ellen Cherry at Isaac & Ishmael's, Abu was in the kitchen inspecting, for the tenth time that day, the dishwashing equipment. It was Spike who answered her rap at the door. "How's it going, Mr. Cohen?" she asked. "Everything set?" Spike could say nothing. He was too overwhelmed by her shoes.
It was Spike who had hired her. She had arrived for that interview in penny loafers—sensible waitress shoes—and it's difficult to say whether or not footwear influenced his decision. More than likely, it was her politics. Or, rather, her lack of them. After interviewing scores of do-gooders—well-meaning but incompetent liberals who wished to be personally identified with his experiment — Spike was refreshed to speak with an experienced waitress who professed to

know next to nothing about the situation in the Middle East.
"I'm an artist," she explained.
"And it's not political, this art you make?"
"A lot of artists don't get it yet, Mr. Cohen, but 'political art' is a
contradiction in terms."
"What about this guy, Goya? His famous pictures against war?" "Goya's work is powerful because his technique was powerful. It was
fortuitous. A bad painter painting atrocities is committing atrocities himself, in my opinion. Besides, what about Rubens? His big, rosy, joyful nudes are just as much a statement against war as Goya's mutilated victims. Rubens is saying Yes to life. Way I see it, anything that says Yes to life is automatically saying No to war."
Spike hired her to wait tables. When he told Abu about her, Abu suggested that they promote her to lunch shift maître d'. And they did.
*
Two weeks later, Ellen Cherry was unemployed. On the phone to Colonial Pines, she had said, "If Uncle Buddy's behind this, he owes me bucks."
"Your daddy says no blessed way would Bud go that far," Patsy replied. "Your daddy says terrorists did it."
"What does my mama say?"
"Ha! Don't nobody listen to your mama. 'Less she's offering 'em fried chicken or a piece of you know what."
"Piece of what, mama?"
"Never you mind."
"Piece of what?"
"Hush. I'm not gonna say it."
Ellen Cherry hadn't been overly concerned about being blasted out of a job.
That was back in June, when she still believed things would work out with Boomer. Now, with the weasel fart of impending divorce hanging in the air, she needed the income. Boomer promised a generous settlement if his show went well, but she would sell her hair to a museum of natural history before she'd accept a crumb from that foul loaf. In her darker moments, she imagined her hair in a display case alongside a woolly mammoth. Schoolchildren on field trips would compare them in essays and scare their little brothers and sisters with slightly exaggerated descriptions. "In the Ice Age, things had to be real hairy," they'd explain, brandishing garish postcards.
She was one of the few employees to return to the I & I for its second

incarnation. Most of the others had found work elsewhere or built personal bomb shelters. As the new staff arrived for the grand reopening, Ellen Cherry could tell there wasn't a food-service professional in the lot. Mainly, they were youthful idealists. Some signed on at the I & I because it made them feel important. Others, she suspected, had suicidal tendencies.
"Should I check the setups, Mr. Cohen?"
"No, no, no. Teddy'll take care of that." Teddy was the dinner maître d'. "Relax already. Have a little drink, enjoy."
"I've noticed you looking at my feet, sir. Are these shoes too ... too loud for here?"
"No, no, no. Very attractive, very nice. Cassini. I hope you got a bargain. You need more Cassini. I get them for you wholesale." Spike handed Ellen Cherry an empty glass and nodded at an ice bucket. "You got to admit, though, those shoes of yours are as bright as Hadee's schnozz."
Ellen Cherry laughed politely. She filled her glass. It was the same brand of champagne with which Boomer had surprised her at the Montana drive-in movie. She winced. Sentimental memories were like sugar-water icicles. Was she to be poked in the heart the rest of her life?
Outside on United Nations Plaza, the water was softer, if more sour. The rain was the color and flavor of toad sweat and had been all day. It vinegared the mobile TV units that were beginning to vie for parking spaces near the corner of Forty-ninth Street.
Media coverage of Isaac & Ishmael's reopening was even more extensive than it had been at the initial debut. A restaurant dedicated to Jewish-Arabic brotherhood might be good feature material, but a restaurant that could be blown to sesame seeds on camera was potentially hard news.
Simultaneously with the newsmen, as if choreographed, protesters arrived: small ragtag groups of extreme Zionists and Palestinians. Police officers made sure they kept well apart, although when the colors began to run on their rain- dampened placards, only by their headgear could you tell which was which. "Notice how similar their shoes," said Spike. "Yes," agreed Abu, who had been drawn out of the kitchen. "To a bird in the air, it's beanies versus dishcloths. To a bug on the street, both groups are the same."
Then, moments before the doors opened at seven o'clock, a chartered bus pulled up and disgorged a well-groomed mixture of Jews and Aryans, mostly in Burberry raincoats. They were equipped with amplified bullhorns, and the

"Redemption Now!" banners their members bore were executed in waterproof paints.
Through the fogged windows of the I & I, Ellen Cherry thought she recognized her "uncle" Buddy. The man was ordering people about and chatting it up with the cops. As haggard as a prisoner of war, he was a scarecrow whom no amount of Burberry tailoring could make distinguished. It had to be the Reverend Buddy Winkler. When at last he spoke into his bullhorn, broadcasting his vocal saxophone to the neighborhood and, through network mikes, to the nation, identification was positive. At once brutish and soothing, the heavy- toned chords vibrated slowly, turning over in the rain like an Italian stallion turning over in bed.
Keeping her distance from the doorway, lest Buddy glimpse her, Ellen Cherry, nevertheless, could hear his words. He kept advocating ejection, by force, of Moslems from Jerusalem's Temple Mount so that the Messiah could come. She had only the slimmest notion of what he meant, but his voice made her so horny she could barely keep from squirming, crossing her legs, or hopping about, like a little girl who had to go to the bathroom.
On the subject of Egypt, Ellen Cherry was so vague she thought Ramses II was a jazz piano player. From that, we might conclude that she was equally dumb about jazz. As a matter of fact, she did believe "Birdman of Alcatraz" to be Charlie Parker's nickname in prison. In her favor, it might be reported that, despite similarities in the crowds they flocked with, she did not confuse the Alcatraz Birdman with St. Francis of Assisi.
One of the Egyptian gods had had the head of a bird. With his great scarlet beak, Roland Abu Hadee somewhat resembled him. When Abu came out of the kitchen (the dishwasher had threatened to quit if Abu didn't stop looking over his shoulder) to join Ellen Cherry at a corner table, she was as pleased as a priestess of the Nile might have been had she been visited by the hawk-headed deity. Abu could distract her both from the buzz of her clitoris (an organ unattended for the past six months) and the chaos out on the sidewalk, where the milling mobs of Moslems, Jews, and Christians, shouting slogans and shaking fists, now had been joined by a gentle delegation of New Age doom-sayers who had seized this opportunity to quietly advertise the latest in a chronic if not insipid series of cataclysms (earthquakes, comets, planetary alignments, etc.), which either failed to materialize or to produce the hoped-for alterations in social consciousness.
It was much noisier outside the restaurant than within, for the protesters,

prophets, cops, cameramen, reporters, and curiosity-seekers outnumbered diners at least twenty to one. A number of celebrities had been invited to eat free at the grand reopening, but among the notables who had appeared at the original opening, only Norman Mailer had had the guts to return. Mailer and the couple dozen other guests seemed to be shunning their dinners in favor of the Egyptian and Israeli wines, which meant that the food was pretty bad or else they were worried about having to run for cover on a full stomach.
At any rate, Ellen Cherry and Abu had little trouble conversing in a normal tone.
"This dining room strikes me as rather drab," Abu confessed. He gestured at the gold-flecked bamboo matting that covered the walls. "We paid a decorator good money for this! There is not a stalk of bamboo in the entire Middle East."
"Maybe he thinks Jerusalem's in Polynesia," she said.
"Jerusalem is everywhere," said Abu, a bit too solemnly. "The aura of it extends around the globe. Jerusalem is everywhere. There is just not enough of it in this room." He thought for a moment. "My dear, you are an artist. Why do we not hang some of your pictures in here?"
When she didn't respond right away, he added, "Naturally, we would have them insured."
Ellen Cherry had to smile. Were her paintings blown up with the I & I, she might realize some financial gain from them. "Well, I showed you slides back in June," she said.
Abu concealed a shudder. He remembered trees that resembled old gay actors trying on kimonos, hills that bounced like red rubber hemorrhoids. Who could eat in such company? Who could meditate on brotherhood or fair Jerusalem? "Yes, dear, but those were done awhile ago, as I recall. When you lived in that place, Seattle. How about something more . . . recent."
"Don't have anything recent. I've not exactly been painting since I've been in New York."
Ellen Cherry was lying. True, after the Airstream turkey had been sold to the Museum of Modern Art (which had outbid a large corporation that wanted to sponsor it in the Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade), she had thrown her brushes and colors into an incinerator. In late summer, however, she started painting again. Almost feverishly. She had enough new canvases to cover every wall in the I & I, including the pantry and the men's room. But she wasn't showing them to anyone, not even her alleged dealer, Ultima Sommervell, who, like Abu, had asked to see new work. It was not Ellen Cherry's intention to ever, ever show

them.
Suppose, though, that one moonless night you were to dress in black
pajamas (the ninja kind, the cat burglar kind), and, employing spider lines and tree frog cups, you scaled the wedding-cake facade of the Ansonia Hotel at Seventy-third and Broadway, climbing (pity your poor butt if you're afraid of heights) to floor eleven, where you use a short lightweight wrecking bar to pry loose a window frame. Suppose, then, you were to pull yourself in, your ebony Taiwanese sneakers last to slide over the sooty ledge. Discreetly flashing a powerful penlight, suppose you locate the paintings in question, stacked against the apartment wall, their faces resolutely to the plaster. Silently, one by one, you pull them back and inspect them. To your surprise, there's not a landscape in the lot! In many of the pictures, nothing is depicted but a small silver spoon. Others feature a single bedraggled purple sock. And just when you thought pop art had been buried with Andy Warhol, you discover realistic renderings of a can of Van Camp's pork and beans. One after another, spoons, socks, and bean cans, spoons, socks, and bean cans, the sequence broken only occasionally by full-length nude portraits of a man you, as an art lover, recognize as Randolph "Boomer" Petway III. From the single bedroom, you hear the feathery moans of a woman sleeping alone, and as you tiptoe out of this Gallery of the Missing, you recall that someone once said, "The purpose of art is to provide what life does not."
Abu was called up front to pose with Spike again, to grant yet another joint interview. He preferred to chat with Ellen Cherry or to supervise the dishwashing and falafel-frying, but when one made a grand public gesture such as Isaac & Ishmael's, one was obliged to meet the press.
While he was away, Ellen Cherry tuned in the demonstrations. She could hear her uncle Buddy's sax crooning to the faithful, crooning them up the slopes of the Temple Mount, crooning the Messiah down from heaven to say hi to them there. Screened by a starched white veil of tablecloth, she touched herself between her legs. It was like stroking a live bee. A bee trapped, tiny wings awhirr, in a puddle of molasses.
When Abu rejoined her, he announced, "I am afraid Spike is permitting the demonstrators to get him upset."
"They don't upset you, Mr. Hadee?" Lifting her errant left hand into the light, she surreptitiously examined it for traces of moisture.
"Of course they do. I am appalled by the fear and ignorance that motivates such behavior. I am concerned about violence. The difference, dear one, is that I

am Arab and Spike is a Jew. Oh, yes! To say that Arab and Jew are brothers and sisters is not to say that we are the same. There are racial differences among people, yes? There are cultural differences, sexual differences." (At the mention of the word "sexual," Ellen Cherry involuntarily squirmed.) "In my opinion, those differences can be good. What a dull world this would be were we all alike. What an evolutionary dead end! To be brothers, to live in peace, we do not have to be overly similar. We do not have to admire or even like one another's peculiarities. We need only respect those peculiarities—and to be grateful for them. Our similarities provide us with a common ground, but our differences allow us to be fascinated by one another. Differences give human encounters their snap and their fizz and their brew."
Trite or not, Ellen Cherry liked what Abu had to say. If he could say those things in Uncle Buddy's voice, she thought she might follow him anywhere. To her mind, could a man combine Mr. Hadee's content with the Reverend Buddy Winkler's style, he might constitute a reasonable facsimile of that Messiah that the excitables on the street were so ga-ga about. Of course, Ellen Cherry was near to drunk.
"What's your take, then, on the demonstrations?"
"My take!"
"Yeah, you know, your ..." Her train of thought switched to a siding,
perhaps to try to balance its effervescent load. Abu's flowery freight, however, stayed right on track.
"There are differences among Jews," he said. "Jews are not cut from whole cloth, do not imagine they are. Their so-called clan-nishness, their solidarity, has many exceptions. Yet, a candle burns in their blood, and as different as their lives outwardly may be, each from the other, every Jew reads his or her life story by the light of that same candle. It hurts Spike Cohen when he is attacked so bitterly by other Jews. He may deny it, our Spike the Shoe Wolf, but you can tell the attacks wound him. The Arab, he is used to that. We have been fighting among ourselves as long as grains of sand can remember. Vendettas, raids, bloody feuds, they are more common among Arabs than oil wells or dromedaries. Arabs have injured one another more than they have injured Jews. I am not surprised that there are Arabs out there on UN Plaza who would make me into a lollipop. You understand? My head on a stick."
Abu paused. He and Ellen Cherry exchanged furtive glances, both of them laboring in vain to keep from picturing his dark head impaled like a toasted marshmallow.

Eventually, he continued. "You are an artist ..."
He's changing the subject now, she thought. He's back to decorating. Well, I can't help him there. He wouldn't understand what I'm painting these days. I barely understand it myself.
"You are an artist. You know that big picture at the museum mid town, that picture by that fellow Rousseau, it is called The Sleeping Gypsy?'
"Yeah. Sure. That's a very famous painting."
"It ought to be called The Sleeping Arab, that picture. An Arab lies in the desert, sleeping under the crazy-faced moon. A lion sniffs at the Arab, the Arab is unafraid. The Arab dreams on. The river in the background, I think the river is the Arab's dream. Perhaps the lion is also dreamed: you notice it has left no paw prints in the sand. In any case, that picture, my dear, is the definitive portrait of the Arab character. Fierce and free, sleeping fearlessly beneath the wild night stars. But dreaming. Dreaming always of water. Dreaming of danger when real danger is absent, in order to demonstrate bravado. Arabs live in their fantasies. We are not a practical people like the Jews are. The Jew gets things accomplished. The Arab dreams—and converses with the moon.
"But, dear Ellen Cherry, what else is in that beautiful picture by Rousseau? Tell me?"
"What else? What else is in the painting? Let me see. Uh, well, I think there's a jug of some sort. . . ."
"Yes. Yes. A water jar. What else?"
"Uh”
"A musical instrument. Correct? Kind of a mandolin or what in Greece they
call a bouzouki. And that tells you something further about the Arab. Another side of him. We love music. Arabs love the music of the stars. But also the arithmetic of the stars. Both are Arabic inventions. Did you know that? Oh, yes, in the arts and sciences, the Arabs were once masters. Our architecture was original and powerful. We invented astronomy, modern mathematics, map- making, shipbuilding, perfumery. I could go on. We have an ancient literary heritage. In the eighth, ninth, and tenth centuries, while Europe wallowed in its Dark Ages, while Europe was ignorant and impoverished and altogether barbarous, there was enlightenment in the Arab lands. The Arab world was cultured then, rich, educated, and, in its fierce, dreamy way, refined. Mathematicians strolled in rose gardens. Poets rode stallions.
"So what happened? Why, my dear, the Crusaders paid us a little visit. The Crusaders came. Christian knights from Europe. And they massacred men,

women, and children—Jew as well as Arab, it should be told: all who were non- Christian. The Crusaders destroyed the intellectual and scientific life of western Asia and northern Africa. They burned the largest, most complete library in the world, the great library of Tripoli, and they reduced to rubble scores of scientific and artistic centers. Such a tragedy. Such a waste."
Abu leaned across the table, leaned across the bamboo place mats, bamboo napkin rings, and lotus-patterned linen napkins that had prompted Spike to wonder why the decorator hadn't supplied the I & I with chopsticks, already; leaned toward Ellen Cherry until his rosy proboscis, the flesh incarnate of Painted Stick, was only millimeters from rubbing against her own dwarfed nose, and as the metronome inside her panties suddenly amplified its tick, marking time, marking estrogen time, marking an insect rhythm of feminine heat, he parted his lips. Ellen Cherry fully expected him to bark or growl or hiss. Instead, he spoke in his customary mild tone.
"Noble Crusaders. Holy Crusaders. They pulled the Arab lands down into the muck pit with Europe. And the Arab lands have never recovered. No amount of oil profit can buy back their enlightenment. How different conditions would be today in the Middle East, how much saner and safer the entire earth might be, had those Christians not defiled a civilization too advanced for their arrogant little minds to understand. Did they teach you these things in your Jesus school, pretty Cherry?"
Before Ellen Cherry could respond, one of the protest groups, it was difficult to identify which one, attempted to invade the restaurant, creating a huge commotion as police beat them back at the door. Clubs swung, blood drops flew, cameras flashed, and diners, spilling wine and sputtering lentils, stampeded in the direction of the kitchen. Both her clitoral hum and her champagne static drowned out now by spurting adrenaline, Ellen Cherry made as if to rise, but Abu just sat there. "The Crusaders wanted Jerusalem," he said placidly. "Jerusalem was their prize. I suppose we cannot fault them for that."
It was a long, troubled evening, but the I & I survived. The only damage it sustained was wine stains on its ubiquitous bamboo. Moreover, the media exposure had been terrific.
On the way home, alone, in the limo, its backseat so spacious, the city it purred through so threatening and unknowable, Ellen Cherry felt like a small child. She pulled her feet, red spikes and all, up onto the seat and hugged her knees. But that made her feel even smaller. In order to grow big again, she began

to think about whom she was going to sleep with.
Obviously, she was going to sleep with somebody soon. It didn't take
Nostradamus to forecast that. But who?
Boomer would have been first on her list. Fat chance. It almost made her
laugh. Eighteen months earlier, when they were crossing the country in the honeymoon turkey, she entertained a scenario: in New York, sooner or later, she was bound to fall in love with a fellow artist, a successful painter, probably; a man who really understood her, her work, her creative needs; and she would have to leave Boomer for him, she would have to break ol' Boomer's heart. It seemed so inevitable that she went so far as to rehearse her speech, the sincerely weepy one in which she would tell Boomer she wanted a divorce. (They were in Minnesota then, mind you, Minnesota and Wisconsin, stray grains of wedding rice still sparkling here and there on the Airstream carpet.) What a presumption that turned out to be. What a joke.
Boomer had left her. And she had yet to meet a New York painter she would allow in her mind or her pants. Granted, she hadn't met very many.
As for other men, the bachelors she had encountered at clubs and bars and parties, well, most appeared to have one thing in common: having been hurt at Point A, they insured themselves against being hurt again at Point C by becoming assholes at Point B. In all fairness, that was true of the single women over thirty, as well.
One-night stands were out, anyway. Fear of AIDS.
Could she sleep with Mr. Hadee or Mr. Cohen? Yes, indeed, she could. Mr. Hadee was so gracious and sweet, Mr. Cohen so dynamic and handsome. It might be nice to take an older lover. Sleeping with one's boss had obvious advantages, although it always seemed to backfire on the waitresses she had known who'd done it. Alas, Mr. Hadee was happily married. And Mr. Cohen, well, it made her somehow uneasy the way he stared at her feet. What had Mr. Hadee called him? Shoe Wolf.
One older man who definitely was not a candidate for her favors was Buddy Winkler, no matter if his voice did carbonate her fluids.
Thus far, her daddy had concealed from Buddy that she had gone back to work for the Arab and the Jew. Bud had learned, however, that she and Boomer were estranged, and since he assumed automatically that it was her fault, he'd expressed interest in counseling her. God, she hoped he didn't drop in on her in her weakened condition! Of course, Buddy would have been happy to call her "Jezebel" as often as she wished. What exactly did go on in bed with a preacher?

she wondered. Patsy would know.
At the Ansonia, Raoul met the car. The rain had stopped, and he wore a
tight tan uniform with plastic "brass" buttons. Were it not for his porkpie hat, he might have been an officer in a banana republic air force. As he helped her from the limo, he squeezed her wrist. "Didn't stay long over dare in Jerusalem, Miz Charl." The thing about Raoul was his availability. She could have him now! That was a solid inducement. Her knees turned into chewing gum imagining it. But she resisted. No more Latin lovers: a pledge she would stick to like Scotch tape to a Chihuahua.
Raoul seemed to sense that he had been considered and rejected. However, instead of pouting when Mrs. Charles entered the elevator without glancing back, he scribbled in his notebook:
Muddy Waters he play in the river Joan Rivers she play in the mud Swami guru play in a big salad bowl Counting lettuce and chewing his cud
The day would come, man, when every blanquita in New York would want Raoul Ritz, man. Raoul was born to star.
At the bathroom mirror, removing her makeup and wondering in amazement—as she had virtually every day for twenty years—at the epic scope of her hair, Ellen Cherry inquired of her reflection, "You know who I'd like to sleep with? Who I'd really like to sleep with?" She giggled. "I'd like to sleep with the only real artist in New York City. I'm talking 'bout Turn Around Norman."
She wasn't referring to Norman Mailer, the novelist who had looked her over—approvingly or disapprovingly, she could not determine—at the I & I party. No, she referred to a certain street performer, who . . . well, never mind. Turn Around Norman's turn will come. Let's allow Ellen Cherry to sleep this off.
*
Knock knock knock! Something was knocking like the pistons on Satan's Nash Rambler. Ellen Cherry actually couldn't tell whether the sound was external or internal, whether it was a visitor rapping at her door or her hangover trying to hang a picture on the wall of her skull. A picture of The Massacre of the Innocents painted on black velvet by a hydrocephalic baboon.
She sat up in bed and opened her eyes. She opened her eyes carefully so that they wouldn't break. Her eyes seemed to be playing the eye game without

her. The room was so out of focus she was afraid to breathe until she made absolutely certain she wasn't underwater. She could hear better with her eyes open, however. Most people could. Knock knock] It was the door.
"Who is it?" she called—and instantly winced.
"Me!"
"Who?"
"Me! Open up! I used to live here! Wahoo!"
Why now, dear God? Why now? She hadn't seen the fool in more than a
month, and he shows up when she was undressed, hung over, and doubtlessly looking like The Massacre of the Innocents painted on black velvet by a hydrocephalic baboon. The fact that he'd seen her a hundred times first thing in the morning after a hard night didn't mean a thing. That was then and this was now. She sprang from bed. "Give me five minutes," she called, knowing full well that it would take longer than that just to peel the wallpaper off her tongue.
The fact that she didn't have to brush her hair—what difference would it have made?—cut down on her repair time. In eight minutes, exactly, the mirror showed her only marginally below the summit of her potential. Of course, she hadn't bathed, but a splash or two of Jungle Desire cologne would take care of that. She splashed, then went to the door.
"Sugar britches."
"Yeah, Boomer?"
He was wearing one of his old faded Hawaiian shirts and, were she not
mistaken, the same steel-toed work shoes he'd been married in, but his leather pants were new and expensive. A beret as red as a mosquito's belch reduced the amount of scalp revealed by his receding hairline to an area just slightly too small to invite spray-can graffiti. The beret was nothing new, however. He had taken to wearing it the day that he discovered that he was an artist.
She found him a beer in the fridge, a Pabst Blue Ribbon that he'd left behind. There wasn't a slice of cold pizza on the premises, but he didn't suffer, having consumed three that morning already.
"I was in the neighborhood . . ."
"Yeah. Right. Well, then, how're you doing, Boomer?" "Got my nose to the grindstone."
"Good."
"My shoulder to the wheel."
"Fine."
"My ear to the cauliflower."

"Uh-huh."
"My cheeks to the halibut."
"You're certainly flip these days."
"My lip to the flipper."
"Is that what she calls it?"
"Be nice."
"How is ol' Ultima, anyway?"
"Ellen Cherry, I don't hardly ever see Ultima. I don't see her that much. She
wants to see you, though. I told her I thought you were painting again." "Well, I'm not."
"Whadda ya call them?" He nodded, beret and all, toward the twenty or more canvases stacked against the wall.
"Experiments."
"I don't see why—"
"No! Don't you touch those paintings!"
"I thought they weren't paintings."
They sat for a time in silence. Boomer gulped his beer. She didn't offer
another. He crushed the empty can in his big welder's fist, then began twisting the aluminum into some form or other. She wondered if he would include it in his exhibition.
After a while, he asked, "You doing okay?"
"Indisputably. I'm gainfully employed. I've got my health. Except I have been having psychic problems lately. I keep channeling Janis Joplin."
"Huh?"
She commenced to sing. "I'm gonna wash that man right outta my hair, I'm gonna wash that man right outta my hair ..."
"Ellen Cherry."
"... and send him on his way-ay."
"Ellen Cherry, now."
"Sorry. I've got no control over it. Sometimes she just takes over my body." Nervously, Boomer scratched his thick neck. "Yeah, well, that was some
kind of Broadway show tune you were singing. Janis Joplin never sung any song like that. She was rock 'n' roll."
"She's dead, Boomer. In death, a singer can expand her repertoire."
"And I don't buy that bull about washing a man outta your hair, neither. That hair of yours? Man get caught in there, you could shampoo forever and not set him loose."

"Well, that sure wouldn't be any problem for you. Exactly how many hairs do you have left now? Under that corny damn beret?"
That was the way it went, sparring, beating around their respective bushes, neither of them saying what was really on his or her mind, until Ellen Cherry glanced at the clock and realized that she had to be at the I & I in twenty-four minutes. He offered her a ride, and because she was late, she accepted. She made him wait in the hall while she changed, not so much out of modesty as fear that as soon as her back was turned, he would sneak a look at her paintings.
Descending in the elevator, she primed herself for some industrial-strength flirting with Raoul. She wanted Boomer to have a good look at how much that young stud wanted her. Raoul wasn't manning the door, though. She'd forgotten that he didn't come on duty until four in the afternoon. He's probably home balling his sister, she thought. Or brushing his hat. Maybe both at the same time.
Ellen Cherry was wrong. Raoul was in a recording studio spending his Ansonia earnings to lay down a track.
Pigeon she strut on the rooftop
Cockroach he strut on the sink My baby strut down to Jerusalem Where blood is the favorite drink
"Leban zabadi. That's the creamy Egyptian yogurt. Turshi. Uh, turshi is the . . . the mixed vegetables in ... a spicy sauce. Dajaj mashwi. That's the half- chicken marinated in lemon, oregano, garlic, pepper, and olive oil. Why did the half-chicken cross the road, Boomer?"
"Which half was it?"
"Either half. Take your pick."
"Well, if it was split down the middle, it'd be a half-assed chicken. I'd have
to be pretty hungry to order that."
"Shawarma. That's the thinly sliced beef with Middle Eastern spices.
Majadra is the rice cooked with lentils and flavored with fried onions. Roz bel khalta. Roz bel khalta. Now what the heck is roz bel khalta?"
"Yiddish for Mrs. Jimmy Carter?"
"Sounds more like a stripper to me. Roz Bel Khalta, the Gypsy Rose Lee of the Middle East. But we've got no strippers at the I and I." (Maybe not yet, Ellen Cherry. But a time is coming. Oh, yes! A time is surely coming.)
"Shish kabob. Everybody knows shish kabob. Shish tawook. Same thing, only chicken. Funny name, though. Mr. Hadee likes the name, shish tawook.

Musical name, he says. Like a little poem."
Boomer shook his head until his beret slipped askew. "Right out of Robert
Frost," he said.
Riding to the restaurant in Boomer's brand-new Ford van, Ellen Cherry was
going over the menu in her head. She had to know it intimately so that she could monitor the waiters and waitresses. It was her job to scold them should they misinform a diner or mix up an order. Neither extensive nor, in her opinion, particularly appetizing, the menu was a challenge, nonetheless.
"Baba ghanoug. I ought to know that one. Baba ghanoug . . ."
"That's the name Richard Alpert took when he got back from India. Or else it's what that Walters woman drinks at Christmas time."
He dropped her off on the corner of Forty-ninth and United Nations Plaza at precisely 10:00 A.M. He blew her a big welder's kiss as he sped away. Outwardly, she scowled, but her insides turned into leban zabadi.
Since this was a shakedown lunch, the first lunch of the I & I renaissance, Spike and Abu were on hand. In the future, they would be present only in the evenings. They would spend most of their days playing tennis.
They had met at a senior citizens tennis camp in Florida. Fate threw them together as doubles partners. The best duo in camp, they were well on their way to winning the camp doubles trophy when
Spike announced that he wouldn't be available for the championship match. To Spike's surprise, Abu said that he couldn't participate, either.
The next morning, at the scheduled time of their forfeited match, there was a modest peace rally in Miami Beach. Spike and Abu bumped into each other outside the Fontainebleu Hotel, where a jingoistic presidential candidate was ranting about the need to reduce Soviet influence in the Middle East. Spike stared at Abu's placard. Abu stared at Spike's. They laughed. After that, they were partners off court and on.
Ellen Cherry's title was maître d', but technically she was day manager. Her duties included captaining the reservations desk, orchestrating time slots and table configurations, making up work schedules, assigning sections, finding replacements for ill or hooky-playing employees, receiving deliveries, ascertaining that tables were set correctly, that ice bins were full and the bar stocked, and generally overseeing service. She wasn't required to keep books, but she did have to inspect waitpersons for dirty nails, unusual odors, and

flamboyant hickeys, and she had to be vigilant against cockroach appendages in the baba ghanoug.
As did most other Manhattan restaurateurs, Spike and Abu bribed the health inspectors. Still, a skinny little leg draped over a chickpea, like a bathing beauty's gam encircling a beach ball, was considered bad for business.
"What business?" one might fairly ask, since the dining room was no more than a quarter full for that first lunch, and those diners— unsuspecting tourists in the neighborhood to visit UN Headquarters— were evacuated in a hurry when a bomb threat was phoned in a few minutes past noon.
Standing on the sidewalk waiting for the bomb squad to complete its search, Spike asked Ellen Cherry if the caller had mentioned his affiliation.
"No, he didn't," she said. "He had a foreign accent, but I couldn't tell if it was Arab or Jewish."
"In many parts of the Middle East, they sound alike," said Spike. "People ask, what's your menu, Palestinian or Israeli? So, what's the difference? I ask back. In Jerusalem, all peoples are eating basically the same. One time down the street there at the United Nations, no kidding, the PLO officially complained that the Israelis had stolen their national dish, falafel. Ha! The Israelis laughed and kept munching already. You know what science says: you are what you eat."
"Are you implying that Arabs and Jews are a whole lot alike? Mr. Hadee thinks otherwise."
"Alike or different is not the problem. The problem is that they think they're so different. Each one thinks they're superior. Their religions teach them they're superior. I love my people. In modern times, at least, we have been a smart, industrious people, and a caring people. A kind and humorous people. But to say that we're God's 'chosen' people, the ones what are favored above all the others, hoo boy! that's tempting fate. That's begging for trouble. And trouble we got already. Jerusalem is the trouble capital of the world. For thousands of years, Jerusalem is the capital of trouble and death."
"Then why do you and Mr. Hadee love it so much?"
There was a long and dramatic pause. The pause was almost as long as the East River, that scruffy orphan of the ocean that ran like a gutter of snot at their backs. The pause was nearly as dramatic as the UN Headquarters building, that modern Tower of Babel, tower of ego, cipher, hope, and suspicion, that rose into the brittle sky a block to the south. There was a long, dramatic pause, during which Ellen Cherry suspected that Spike was leering at her slippers.

Spike Cohen was considerably shorter than Roland Abu Hadee. He was stockier, and usually more animated. Whereas Abu was as placid as the eye of a storm, Spike was a funnel of worry twisting around and around that eye. His hair was as silver as a royal tea tray. He oiled it lightly and combed it straight back. It resembled the moonlit surf on a chrome beach, a wave breaking over a tropical Detroit. His features were as finely formed as those on a poster in a Greek delicatessen, but his eyes were anything but classical. They were ray-shooting emeralds that might have been scooped from the sockets of a jaguar idol. Indeed, there was something feline about him; Shoe Lion rather than Shoe Wolf. Abu— who had walked up in the middle of the long pause—had taken, as he matured, to wearing dark, heavy clothing, but Spike wore the orange sports jackets and chartreuse ties of a man who dressed to impress racehorses.
Abu had just begun to comment on the mess the bomb squad was making inside the restaurant, when Spike terminated his pause. "What I love most about Jerusalem is that it's not about money."
"Pardon?"
"New York here is a city about money. L.A.'s about money. Las Vegas is about money. Dallas the same. Tokyo and London, Milan, Zurich, Singapore, the whole reason for them is money. Tel Aviv's about money. But Jerusalem, it's not about money."
"He is absolutely right," put in Abu. "Jerusalem is about . . . something else."
The bomb squad proclaimed the area safe, questioned Ellen Cherry briefly, and then departed. Surveying the disorder, Spike commented that the I & I might have sustained less damage had there actually been an explosion. Chickpeas rolled hazardously beneath their feet, and loosened bamboo matting hung from the walls like the baggy folds of elephants. "How much liquor did they steal?" Spike asked the bartender.
"About twelve bottles."
"Oy! With our best brandy they wash down their doughnuts."
"If there is another bomb scare, we should let our own security guards
handle it," proposed Abu. "What you mean if?"
It took the three of them and the lunch staff most of the afternoon to get the place in shape for dinner. Around five o'clock, the cooks and waitpersons were sent home, and Ellen Cherry sat down with Spike and Abu for a glass of tea.

Spike had a shot of rum in his. "Hoo boy!" he said.
When Ellen Cherry expressed her condolences for the external problems
besetting the I & I, Abu advised her not to fret. "It is quite flattering," he said. "There are so many people, many of them powerful, who object to a peaceful settlement in the Middle East. It is encouraging that they think our little restaurant could make a difference. Let them protest. Let them bomb. I am flattered."
"Not me," said Spike. "I am heartsick already that there are Jews in this hanky-pank. I got heartbreak even though I know that in ancient times there were Jews behaving worse, that biblical Jew behavior set a bad example for the Christians what followed. All that 'smite smite smite,' 'slew slew slew.' "
Wondering aloud how there possibly could be people who didn't want peace in the Middle East, Ellen Cherry realized instantly that she should have kept her mouth shut. Abu and Spike, each in his distinct fashion, were all too willing to fill her in. Their explanations might have been instructive had they the virtues of simplicity or logic, but apparently such assets were entirely missing from any accurate Middle Eastern account.
Until quite recently, if Ellen Cherry had been asked what was the first thing she thought about when she heard the words "Middle East," she would have answered, "Rugs."
She had never paid much attention to the Middle Eastern situation, per se, and now she knew why. It was an overload of craziness. It was a seventy-piece orchestra rehearsing a funeral dirge and a wedding march simultaneously in a broom closet. It was a firebug convention in a straw hotel.
Since her association with the I & I, she'd learned about the various kinds of Arabs: Druse, Shiites, Sunnis, Hijazi, Bedouins, Sufis, Wah-habis, Arab Christians—and the Palestinians, who didn't really consider themselves to be Arabs and who were contemptuous of the nomadic traditions of their "Sleeping Gypsy" cousins. Jesus! The Middle East had more kinds of Arabs than Cartier had pillboxes. Apparently, it was about as bad with the Jews. Hardly a monolith, Jews ranged over a wide, politically diverse spectrum; instead of one Jewish point of view, there were dozens, angrily divided along ethnic, class, and religious lines.
As for who was legitimately entitled to Jerusalem and the land surrounding it—entitled to Palestine or Israel or whatever it ought to be called—forget it! You could make a perfectly just case for either side; in fact, you could make a different just case for either side every fifteen minutes from now until bulldogs

barked for bean sprouts. And then you'd have to factor in the Christians.
It's too complex, too confusing, she thought. Nobody'll ever straighten this
damn mess out. From that afternoon on, when anyone mentioned the Middle East, she went back to thinking rugs. Give her an Oriental carpet, opulent and jazzy, comforting yet intense, like an overtuned eye game flattened and spread out on the floor. Give her pattern and color, give her a map of the higher mind, a map woven from dreams and hair and dyed with spices and wine. Give her beauty, in other words. Give her humanity's best shot. Give her art.
She kissed Abu and Spike on their sad, spunky foreheads, untangled herself from their wild weave, and walked what remained of her hangover hurriedly up to Fifth Avenue, hoping that she wasn't too late to catch Turn Around Norman at work.
There was a full hour of daylight left, but it was the lame-duck daylight of autumnal afternoons, a daylight that already had been defeated by night. Long brown shadows sepia-toned the streets, and the chill that was settling upon Manhattan felt as invigoratingly decadent as the breath of a jack-o'-lantern. Indeed, the watered-down morbidity of Halloween trappings haunted the windows of the recherche brownstones along East Forty-ninth Street. There was actually a paper skeleton dancing in the doorway of the Mel Davis Dog Boutique, where Ellen Cherry paused ever so briefly to gaze in a kind of pre- Halloween horror at a prissy hound being anointed with oils. She wondered why Mel didn't paste a dog skeleton on his door glass, little that poodles understood about the Way of the Dead, although all dogs, including barbered poochie- woochies, had a nose for invisible paths.
The street was lined with trees, many, one supposed, that poodles had peed upon. Businessmen swinging attache cases plodded homeward through fallen leaves. From time to time, an executive would intentionally kick up a brass geyser of leaves, then glance around sheepishly as if he might be cited for a violation of adulthood.
Every time she passed a Japanese restaurant, which on East Forty-ninth was about every twenty seconds, Ellen Cherry thought, The bamboo was intended jor this place, they delivered it to our Jerusalem by mistake. When, on the corner of Third Avenue, she passed Wollensky's, a well-known hangout for politicians, she wondered how many inside secretly opposed peace in the Middle East. Then she thought, rugs. Then she kicked up a brass geyser of leaves, glancing around brazenly as if to say, "I'm twenty-four, jilted, and work in food service; I'm free

to be as free as I please." It occurred to her that despite the failure of her marriage, the failure of her career, despite her hangover and chronic horniness, she suddenly was feeling rather light and giddy. She couldn't understand it. Was she simply too shallow to suffer indefinitely, or was she too wise to become attached to her suffering, too feisty to permit it to rule her life? She voted for wise and feisty, and walked on, kicking leaves.
By Lexington Avenue, the trees had thinned out. The noble old brownstones had given way to glassy apartment towers and classy hotels. Sidewalks had widened, stretched by the muscular fingers of money, and the pour of office workers had curdled into a cyclonic multitude, well-dressed, cologned, and silently pouting because the limousines double-parked along each and every curb were not idling obediently for it. Crossing Lexington, she trod on the grates over the Grand Central underground tracks. As every child in New York was aware, there was another city down there in the tunnels, populated by fugitives, hermits, gypsies, mad scientists, albino alligators, giant mutated roaches, sorcerers, sages, and surviving members of the lost tribe of Manhattan (clothed in twenty-four dollars' worth of blankets and beads).
Ellen Cherry entertained the notion that Turn Around Norman resided in that subterranean milieu. If he didn't live for free in the tunnels, where could he live? The donation box that he set out at his performances seldom had more than a few dimes in it. Airheads who played wooden flutes out of tune in Times Square attracted larger donations than he did. Aromatic winos with pus in their eyes earned more from intimidation than Turn Around Norman earned from his artistry. Either he slept in the streets or he had a patron. Ellen Cherry imagined a beautiful Barnard girl sacrificing her clothing allowance in order to provide Turn Around Norman a warm place to come home to. Grazed by a bullet of jealousy, she vowed to toss ten bucks into his box that day.
At Park Avenue, there were banks on all four corners. Money in every direction. Bank of the West, Bank of the North, Bank of the East, Bank of the South. Bank of Fire, Bank of Air, Bank of Earth, Bank of Water. Spike was right about New York, it existed for moola. But how was Jerusalem any different? Wasn't one of the main attractions of the New Jerusalem (heaven, if you will), to be streets that were paved with gold? At that moment, she noticed that there also were hot dog vendors on all four corners. Carts reeking of sauerkraut and farty sausages. Strangely, that seemed to balance things out—as far as New York was concerned. As for Jerusalem, she was positive that whatever it was that it was about, it was not about food. It was no accident, surely, that the Bible never

mentioned cuisine in its descriptions of the City of Heaven. How many people would forgo cheating on their taxes or their spouses if they knew that their eternal reward included a steady diet of baba ghanoug? In the twelfth century, there was a thoroughfare in Jerusalem named the Street of Bad Cooking, a fact that for better or for worse had failed to deter Spike Cohen or Roland Abu Hadee in his culinary selection.
Jostled past the Waldorf-Astoria and several more Japanese restaurants (this neighborhood reminded Ellen Cherry of a petri dish in which sushi bars and tourists multiplied like bacteria), she finally reached Fifth Avenue, turned uptown past Saks, and came to rest on the steps of St. Patrick's Cathedral. Was she the least aware, during her trek, of how often New York and Jerusalem had interfaced, interpenetrated in her consciousness? Probably not. In any case, it didn't matter now. There before the massive bronze doors of America's most famous monument to Jerusalem's most famous former resident, her attention was nailed, as if to a cross, to the talents of Turn Around Norman.
Turn Around Norman always performed in the same spot: on the sidewalk just to the south of the cathedral steps. As near as Ellen Cherry could determine, he was at his post from morning until dusk, daily with the exception of Wednesdays. For some reason, Turn Around Norman didn't work on Wednesday afternoons. He took Wednesday afternoons off, the way doctors did. What did Turn Around Norman do on Wednesday afternoons? Ellen Cherry tried to picture him playing golf with dermatologists from Yonkers, proctolo-gists from White Plains.
The steps of St. Patrick's were comparatively short, but Ellen Cherry was able to attain an elevation that afforded a satisfactory view of the performance space. She was settling onto her step like a dowager settling into her box at the opera, when a hand landed as softly as a dove on her shoulder and a familiar voice flared like a match near her ear.
"As 1 live and breathe! Bless my sinful soul! It's my little doll baby."
And there was the Reverend Buddy Winkler, in all his seedy glory, smiling at her through a bonfire of new gold fillings.
"Uncle Buddy. What a surprise. Wow! They could pave the streets of heaven with your teeth."
"And they could paint the gates of hell with your lipstick. But, darlin', lemme tell you, it's right nice to hear you speakin' of heaven and to find you in such close proximity to a house of God—even if it's a corrupted house. You

weren't headin' into this papist monstrosity, were you now?"
Both Ellen Cherry and Buddy surveyed St. Patrick's, their gazes slowly
climbing the three hundred and thirty feet to the tips of its twin spires, then parachuting to the steps again.
"No. I may be a Jezebel, Uncle Buddy, but I'm a Protestant Jezebel."
"You got a tongue like your mama's, girl." Ellen Cherry grinned in a sassy, knowing way, causing Buddy to blush uncomfortably, as if some memory of Patsy's tongue shamed or inflamed him. When he regained composure, he asked, "Well, what are you doin' here? In front of the doors through which passeth the richest mackerel-snappers in New York City? Some of whom, I might add, give generously to my cause. All hush-hush, of course." He ran a hand over his cheek, over lacunae that all the bullion in Fort Knox could not plug. "My associates and me got us an office right up the street there. In the Bank of Austria. They're better to us than our own countrymen."
They were nice to Hitler, too, she thought, but she said, "I'm waiting for somebody." Surreptitiously, she glanced at Turn Around Norman, irritated that this chance encounter with Buddy was making her miss the subtleties of his work. One had to watch Turn Around Norman very, very closely.
"Not waitin' for our boy, Boomer, I needn't expect. Naturally, I heard 'bout the separation and have been sorely distressed. Sorely distressed. I yearn to be the instrument through which God reunites you screwballs."
"Well, you'll have to speak with ol' Boomer about that."
"I have spoke with Boomer."
"You have?"
"Yes, indeed. Your hubby bulled into my office only this mornin', claimin'
he was goin' to bust my born-again choppers if a hair offen your head was to be harmed at that satanic café where, I'm sorrowed to learn, you've once agin taken up employ. We need to chat 'bout that, too."
Ellen Cherry wasn't interested in chatting about the I & I. For the moment, she wasn't even interested in watching Turn Around Norman. She just kept thinking about Boomer coming to her defense, trying to protect her. "Boomer did that? He did?" Suddenly, inexplicably, her heart was full of something, she did not know what.
*
The Reverend Buddy Winkler was sheathed in a mustard-colored sharkskin suit that fit him so tightly one was moved to take up a collection to send his crotch on vacation. His starched white shirt was stiff to the point of being

bulletproof, and at its collar, a gray knit tie was knotted in one of those dated Windsor lumps that made him look as though he were plagued by a particularly hideous goiter. His shoes were black loafers that appeared to have been chewed by wolves. Ah, but his smile was golden now, and his voice had lost not a calorie of its old blue heat.
"Naturally, naturally, Boomer is concerned with the welfare of his little wife. As am I. What'd you do to that boy, doll baby? That fop French thing he's totin' around on his head. And his 'art.' I understand he's having an exhibition. That boy used to do an honest day's work. Did you have to go and turn him into an artist?"
"I didn't have a blessed thing to do with it. He turned himself into . . . whatever he is."
Once more, Buddy lay a surprisingly light hand on her shoulder. "When you was just a youngun, knee-high to a wiggly worm, you used to stare at your dish of Jell-O—raspberry Jell-O, usually, with cream on top—and see Santy Claus in it. 'Santy's in my Jell-O,' you'd say. You'd see pictures in your food. We figgered way back then that you was goin' to be somethin' different, somethin' special. It didn't fool nobody when you went in for art. But Boomer Petway . . . that boy ain't no artist."
"You said it, not I."
"But you do agree?"
"Did little Boomer boy ever see Santa Claus in his Jell-O?"
"Hell—heck no! He'd gobble up his dessert so fast there wasn't time to see
no pictures in it."
"I rest my case," said Ellen Cherry. A darkening sky was sucking up
daylight like a sump pump siphoning milk gravy. Turn Around Norman would be quitting soon. She tried to concentrate on him, hoping to detect some nuance of great purity or grace, but the Reverend Buddy Winkler was practically standing in her shoes.
"Who's that?"
"Who's what?"
"That sorry fool over there that you been pretendin' not to gawk at." "Oh, him."
"He hasn't moved a muscle since I been here. Standin' there blank-faced
like a cigar-store Indian. He afflicted, or what?" "He's a street performer."
"Well, when's he gonna perform?"

"He is performing."
Buddy tightened his grip on her shoulder. He even shook her, ever so slightly. "Darlin', he's paralyzed, for God's sake! That's his act? Paralysis? This is what show business has come to? No wonder the Good Lord called Ed Sullivan home."
"But he does move," objected Ellen Cherry, tumbling into a discussion she had sworn to avoid. "That's the point. He turns around. Completely around. But he turns so slowly you can't see him do it. If you watch him long enough, you'll notice that he'll be facing in a different direction than he was when you started watching. Over a period of a couple of hours, he'll turn three hundred and sixty degrees. Only you'll never see him move, no matter how hard you look. That's what's exciting about him."
Buddy let his hand slide off her. He issued a grunt of astonishment, followed by a sigh of exasperation. "Excitin'," he mumbled. "Excitin". If you wasn't my own flesh and blood. ... Let me ask you somethin'. How often you come here and eyeball this poor petrified simpleton?"
"Now that I'm working within easy walking distance—" Oops. She hadn't intended to admit to that. "Oh, I don't know. I come here fairly often, I guess. He's a source of comfort and inspiration to me, Uncle Bud. I suppose you'd have to say—you won't like this—he's my church."
"Humph! Some church. He don't have diddly-squat in his collection plate."
St. Patrick's cornerstone was laid in 1858, at a time when New York was starting to strut its stuff and Jerusalem (under the Turks) was up to its ears in woe and ashes. The age of Ellen Cherry's "church" could not have been easily guessed. Turn Around Norman was one of those creatures of indeterminate years; he might have been any age between his late twenties and early forties. His poundage, too, was ambiguous, for while almost any observer would have classified him as overweight, nobody would have thought to call him fat. Just a bit rosy, just a bit round, he was molded like a healthy cherub. But, oh, his face was fastened to his large head with hellish hinges. His screaming blue eyes, his deeply furrowed brow, his mad poet's mouth (poised to suck the marrow out of the bird bones of beauty), his nose so perfect it might have ridden into town on a swan; those features combined to create a countenance of the most serene intensity, a mixture of the tranquil and the tragic that could have fired the hearts and dampened the underpants of half the city's women, had they paid him the smallest attention as he stood silently and ostensibly inert on the crowded street

in a brown bag of a suit, soiled sneakers, and a colorless sweatshirt bearing the phrase Aplodontia rufas, which, research taught Ellen Cherry, was the Latin for a species of mountain beaver.
For the moment, Turn Around Norman was facing downtown, so they saw him in profile. Apparently, in his present position he couldn't see them at all, which suited Ellen Cherry fine. She didn't relish her "church," her "art museum," her "ballet hall," noticing that she kept company with the pushy evangelist of another faith. She hoped that Buddy would go away while there was still time to tap the quiet ecstasy of the performer's relentlessly regulated passion, but Buddy stood there in the sad titillation of the autumnal chill, gawking at Turn Around Norman like a farm boy examining a runover snake.
"Now don't that beat all," he marveled. "An able-bodied male spendin' his life on the public sidewalk doin' nothin' but turnin' around all day, and doin' that so slow you can't see him do it. Haw! Then expectin' on top of it to be paid for what we don't know he's really doin' in the first place."
"Another way in which he's like the church, I guess. I hadn't thought of it till now."
Buddy's hidden saxophone emitted a soft indigo honk. "Girl, I'd warn you that God Almighty's goin' to strike you dead, exceptin' I been warnin' your mama that for years, and he in his infinite mercy has so far seen fit to withhold his lightnin'."
"You'd be sorry if Patsy got zapped. You and half the men in Colonial Pines."
Now Buddy placed both hands on her shoulders. He got as close to her face as her hair would allow. "You know 'bout your mama's flirtations?" he whispered.
"I knew about them back when I was seeing elves in my pablum. But that's in the past, I reckon, and I don't want to gab about the past."
"Me neither. Let's us gab 'bout the present."
"Uncle Buddy, I don't have time to gab." Anxiously, she surveyed the failing light. Another five minutes and Turn Around Norman would be history. Or, more accurately, geology. "But next time we run into each other, you can explain to me why you object to peace in the Middle East."
"I'll explain right now."
"No. Please."
"I'll explain here and now. If you'd been readin' your Scripture, you'd have
knowed the answer. It's not God's plan for there to be peace in the Middle East.

Not yet, it ain't. First, we'll be witness to an impressive scene. Yea, I say unto you ..."
Oh, shit, she thought. The sax was out of its case.
"... the awfulness of the impending judgment will be unequaled on the earth! The Holy Land, your so-called Middle East, is prophesied to be the scene of the ultimate world war. Combatants will be lured to the area by demons sent by Satan to assemble the armies of the world to challenge the armies of heaven. Up and down the Holy Land, they'll battle. On the very day of the return of Christ, there'll be house-to-house fighting in Jerusalem itself, the homes ransacked and the women raped. Zechariah, fourteen, two."
"Bud, really . . ."
"This is to be the last war, darlin'. The wicked will be destroyed once and for all, whereupon the righteous will dwell with Christ in the New Jerusalem for —"
"Bud!"
"Come on now, let me answer your question. It's not a matter of us Christians not wantin' peace, it's a matter of the time not bein' ripe for peace. First, our Messiah must return. Then, the fightin' in the Holy Land must begin in earnest. These bleedin' hearts who're clamoring for peace in the Middle East understand not what they do. They're uninformed troublemakers, interferm' with —and slowin' down—the natural chain of events that'll fulfill God's promise and make the world sweet as pie for eternity."
Turn Around Norman was about to break his concentration. Ellen Cherry recognized the signs: a fluttering of his girlish lashes, a relaxing of the origami creases in his forehead. Still, she was unable to refrain from blurting, "Is that why you picket and bomb Isaac and Ishmael's? Because their concern for brotherhood and love is screwing up some alleged timetable for destruction?"
"Hush, now. We might picket, my associates and me might, but we don't bomb. You and Boomer and the damn Yankee po-lice are jumpin' to conclusions." He flashed his gold teeth, teeth anxious to sink into afterlife pie. "That cafe is small fry. Small fry. When the Third Temple Platoon throws our dynamite, it'll hit a right more important target than that grubby little restaurant, I promise you."
"Oh? And what target would that be?"
"Hush. I've said too much already. But lemme set you straight on somethin'. The Arab and the Jew that runs that peacenik greasy spoon, it's their own people that wants it shut down the most. Their own kind."

Ellen Cherry had to admit that that seemed the case. "But why?" she asked.
"Because they are not real Arabs and Jews, them two. They are not religious! That Arab, Hadee, he's well-known as an infidel, a livin' insult to the teachings of Islam. They wouldn't let him touch Mecca with a ten-foot pole. And that ol' Jewboy, Cohen, when was the last time he set foot in a synagogue? He sports a Yid accent that'd curdle a bowl of schmaltz, but I understand that in private he can spout English as pretty as you or me. How can they pass themselves off as representatives of their people when neither one of 'em subscribes to the deepest beliefs of their people?"
"They're kind, decent, compassionate—"
"Kind and decent got nothin' to do with it! In the End Times, there're to be many false prophets and false religions. You, little lady, your false religion is art. Verlin, I often suspect, his religion is football. He ain't alone in that one, lemme tell you. Patsy's religion I don't want to speculate on. But the most insidious and dangerous of false religions is secular humanism. It's so crafty, so sneaky, with its kindness and its decency, that only Satan hisself could've come up with it. Well, that's precisely what them two old peaceniks practice, and that's precisely why they're so offensive to the truly devout, includin' the Moslems and the Jews. I told Boomer and I'm tellin' you, I want you to pull outta that heathen cafe, git back in holy matrimony where you belong, 'cause I can't be responsible for your safety there."
~
Early religions were like muddy ponds with lots of foliage. Concealed there, the fish of the soul could splash and feed. Eventually, however, religions became aquariums. Then, hatcheries. From farm fingerling to frozen fish stick is a short swim.
The Reverend Buddy Winkler was correct about Spike Cohen and Roland Abu Hadee: they did not glide in numb circles inside a glass box of religion. In fact, they, Spike and Abu, wouldn't hesitate to directly attribute the success of their relationship to their lack of formal religion. Were either of them actively religious, it would have been impossible for them to be partners or pals. Dogma and tradition would have overruled any natural instinct for brotherhood.
It was as if Spike and Abu had been granted a sneak preview behind the veil, a glimpse in which it was revealed that organized religion was a major

obstacle to peace and understanding. If so, it was a gradual revelation, for it unfolded slowly and separately, a barely conscious outgrowth of each man's devotion to humanity and rejection of doctrine.
At best, perhaps, when the fourth veil does slip aside, Spike and Abu will be better prepared than most to withstand the shock of this tough truth: religion is a paramount contributor to human misery. It is not merely the opium of the masses, it is the cyanide.
Of course, religion's omnipresent defenders are swift to point out the comfort it provides for the sick, the weary, and the disappointed. Yes, true enough. But the Deity does not dawdle in the comfort zone! If one yearns to see the face of the Divine, one must break out of the aquarium, escape the fish farm, to go swim up wild cataracts, dive in deep fjords. One must explore the labyrinth of the reef, the shadows of lily pads. How limiting, how insulting to think of God as a benevolent warden, an absentee hatchery manager who imprisons us in the "comfort" of artificial pools, where intermediaries sprinkle our restrictive waters with sanitized flakes of processed nutriment.
A longing for the Divine is intrinsic in Homo sapiens. (For all we know, it is innate in squirrels, dandelions, and diamond rings, as well.) We approach the Divine by enlarging our souls and lighting up our brains. To expedite those two things may be the mission of our existence.
Well and good. But such activity runs counter to the aspirations of commerce and politics. Politics is the science of domination, and persons in the process of enlargement and illumination are notoriously difficult to control. Therefore, to protect its vested interests, politics usurped religion a very long time ago. Kings bought off priests with land and adornments. Together, they drained the shady ponds and replaced them with fish tanks. The walls of the tanks were constructed of ignorance and superstition, held together with fear. They called the tanks "synagogues" or "churches" or "mosques."
After the tanks were in place, nobody talked much about soul anymore. Instead, they talked about spirit. Soul is hot and heavy. Spirit is cool, abstract, detached. Soul is connected to the earth and its waters. Spirit is connected to the sky and its gases. Out of the gases springs fire. Firepower. It has been observed that the logical extension of all politics is war. Once religion became political, the exercise of it, too, could be said to lead sooner or later to war. "War is hell." Thus, religious belief propels us straight to hell. History unwaveringly supports this view. (Each modern religion has boasted that it and it alone is on speaking terms with the Deity, and its adherents have been quite willing to die—or kill—

to support its presumptuous claims.)
Not every silty bayou could be drained, of course. The soulfish that
bubbled and snapped in the few remaining ponds were tagged "mystics." They were regarded as mavericks, exotic and inferior. If they splashed too high, they were thought to be threatening and in need of extermination. The fearful flounders in the tanks, now psychologically dependent upon addictive spirit flakes, had forgotten that once upon a time they, too, had been mystical.
Religion is nothing but institutionalized mysticism. The catch is, mysticism does not lend itself to institutionalization. The moment we attempt to organize mysticism, we destroy its essence. Religion, then, is mysticism in which the mystical has been killed. Or, at least diminished.
Those who witness the dropping of the fourth veil might see clearly what Spike Cohen and Roland Abu Hadee dimly suspected: that not only is religion divisive and oppressive, it is also a denial of all that is divine in people; it is a suffocation of the soul.
~
As night buttoned the spires of St. Patrick's in its blouse, Buddy Winkler gave Ellen Cherry a hard, nervous hug. "I'll be prayin' for you, doll baby," he called, hurrying off to a meeting with some of his Jews. "And I'll be in touch. You git yourself straightened out, you heah?"
She waved meekly. When she turned back in the direction of downtown, Turn Around Norman was gone. He was slow to rotate, fast to fly. She hadn't even had an opportunity to throw a donation in his box.
Well, she'd be sure to return the following day. Tomorrow, I'll slip him a twenty, she thought. Extravagant, maybe, but she felt a responsibility to encourage him. After all, he was one of a kind—and as far as she could tell, there was no one else who so much as acknowledged his existence.
As far as she could tell. The fact was, there had been five pairs of eyes on Turn Around Norman all day. Perhaps "eyes" was not quite the right word. From a grate over a shaft that led into the basement of the cathedral, Turn Around Norman's performance had been watched at length and with interest by an odd quintet of inanimate objects, hiding there in the cellar.
There was a voluptuous seashell watching Turn Around Norman. There was a decorated stick. There was a little silver spoon, a man's frazzled stocking,

and a battered lump of tin from which hung scraps of paper that once had proclaimed the lump to be a can of pork and beans.

the fifth veil
~
Once upon a time, the wolfmother went to market and picked out wallpaper. It was patterned in spirals and molecular chains. It was bordered with electrons and well-gnawed bones. The wolfmother licked the tip of the salesman's shoelace and turned it into jade. That was her down payment.
Once upon a time, a painted stick and a conch shell arrived in New York City. The shell was warm, heavy, and wet, like the earth, the sea. The stick pointed at the sky. On its tip, it balanced configurations of gases. Although they had traveled long and far, the painted stick and the conch shell were not welcome in New York City. Accustomed to the protection of holy places, they hid in the cellar of a midtown cathedral. It was just a place to rest while they figured out a way to cross the Atlantic Ocean. Nevertheless, they were compelled to remark on how much its ambiance might have been improved by the right kind of wallpaper.
~
There were two more bomb scares at the I & I that week. Both occurred during dinner, so Ellen Cherry was not directly affected. The publicity reached her, though. Coming or going, she had to wade through the cameras of the curious. Like a reclusive movie actress, she donned a scarf and dark glasses, and studied her walking feet as if she had a research grant from the Stubbed Toe Foundation. Her fear was that she would encounter Buddy on the picket line. Or that he would recognize her in a media picture. Family trouble was the worst kind. Some families ran their own little versions of the Middle East. Come to think of it, what was the Middle Eastern situation but a family squabble that had gotten out of hand? Isaac v. Ishmael.
Her parents phoned her at work. "I'm busy," she lied. The only customers in the most famous restaurant in New York were two tables of Japanese tourists, drinking green Egyptian beer and giggling uncontrollably at the baba ghanoug.

"How many eating places in New York City? Ten thousand? Twenty thousand? More? Your mama says 'more.' And you gotta hook up with the only blessed one that's—"
"Relax, Daddy, the worst is over. There're not going to be any further explosions."
Indeed, the week passed without violence, and as a result, onlookers thinned out considerably, another example of the teeny-weeniness of the metropolitan attention span. But there was an explosion. It happened in the safety of Ellen Cherry's own apartment, and while it had been expected, still, it nearly blew her into backward somersaults. The "bomb" was an invitation to Boomer Petway's one-man show at the Ultima Sommervell Gallery.
~
The day they arrived in New York, they had aimed the Airstream directly for Seventy-third and Broadway, where a one-bedroom apartment awaited them in the orchidaceous Ansonia Hotel. They were subletting from a sculptor who had moved to Florence for three years and who, in turn, was subletting from the new curator of contemporary art at the Seattle Art Museum, a man who admired Ellen Cherry's talent. This curator also had provided a letter of introduction to the prominent dealer, Ultima Sommervell.
As quickly as they were settled, as quickly as they had made the bed, scoured the bathtub, and stocked the kitchenette shelves with ramen, pizza mix, Pabst Blue Ribbon beer, and six brands of roach killer, Ellen Cherry had fetched her slides to the Sommervell Gallery. Ultima didn't exactly fall out of her Josef Hoffman "Sitzmaschine" chair, but she was interested enough to promise to come up to the Ansonia and examine the paintings themselves. Three days later, she came.
For his part, Boomer had found that welding shops were located mainly in the outer boroughs. Holding out for a job in Manhattan, he was lying around the apartment reading an espionage novel when Ultima showed up. She was so breathless that they thought she must have climbed the stairs. It turned out that she had chanced upon the big roast turkey in a nearby parking lot and suffered a cultural experience of the brightest magnitude.
"Why, ol' Boomer made that," said Ellen Cherry, innocently, pointing to the husky fellow lounging on the sofa in a T-shirt, Colonial Pines High School track

shorts, and one purple sock.
"Really? Really, darling? Oh, magnifique?"
Ultima Sommervell was tall, dark, and jumpy, somewhere on the dry side
of thirty. Her face was shaped like a strawberry and colored like an olive, simultaneously soft and tart. She was simply but elegantly attired and coiffured, the kind of woman who might have been designed by a Bauhaus architect, except for her bosom, whose free-flowing volume all but contradicted the severe planes of the rest of her body, impeding her balance, creating such a clashing contrast that, speaking strictly aesthetically, she might have benefited from a double mastectomy. It was as if Gropius had created her, then allowed Gaudi to add the boobs. In a spitty British accent, which reminded Ellen Cherry of a schoolgirl trying to mimic Alfred Hitchcock, she continually interrupted her self- assured appraisals of Ellen Cherry's canvases to query Boomer about the drivable bird.
"What I find in your pictures finally is an awkward dichotomy between illusion and abstraction. Energetic, yes; charming, yes; but as I said, awkward. They typify the unlovable nuttiness of modern art before it finally matured and developed a social conscience." She turned to Boomer. "What are you saying with your enormous silver turkey, Mr.—ah—Boomer? It seems fraught, simply fraught, with commentary."
Professing that the market was running rather thin for what she termed "socially insignificant picture-making," Ultima nevertheless agreed to represent Ellen Cherry on a limited basis. She selected three paintings, requesting that they be delivered to her gallery. Her uptown gallery, not the SoHo branch where, Ellen Cherry knew, all the action was. Then she asked Boomer if she might have a tour of his "monstre sacré."
Wriggling into his jeans, Boomer seemed eager to accommodate her.
When they had gone, Ellen Cherry didn't know whether to be glad, mad, or sad. She'd gotten a foot in the door of a major gallery, no mean accomplishment for an unknown artist fresh from the ferns. It ought to have been New Year's Eve squared in her heart. But she wasn't happy with the way Ultima had carried on about that dumb turkey. She wasn't happy with the way Boomer had stared at Ultima's tits.
"Really, darling?" she found herself muttering, after Boomer and Ultima disappeared into the elevator. "Oh magnifuckingfique."
The first ax hit the persimmon tree when Boomer informed his wife that

Ultima was going to sell the turkey for him.
"I thought it was my turkey. I thought it was my wedding present." "Yeah, but you don't get the picture, honey sugar. This isn't no used-car
deal. Ultima wants to sell it as art. And I'm the artist. I made the fool thing." Wasn't that cute? It was art and he made it. Well, okay, let him enjoy his
delusion. Ellen Cherry had to confess that the turkey was a novel idea, and she was all too aware that it was costing a small fortune to park it in the neighborhood. Whereas, should it sell, she would share in the proceeds and could replenish her materials. She decided to be pleased.
But further chips flew when Boomer commenced to accompany Ultima to the "presentations." She was pitching the Airstream two or three times a week, Boomer at her side. At her front is more like it, thought Ellen Cherry, examining her own petite protrusions in the bathroom mirror. Suspecting that cookies were being eaten behind her back, she began to test Boomer in bed. Either his relationship with Ultima was strictly business or he was, indeed, a biological marvel.
But there was a rain of green persimmons on their coital parade following the eventual purchase of the rolling roast by the Museum of Modern Art. Ellen Cherry had thought that the sale would be the end of it, that Boomer would use his half of the profits to set up his own welding shop and they would return to the life they had plotted and planned. But no, according to Ultima, Boomer was in demand. His turkey was a smash, and he was constantly being invited to parties and gallery openings. For a while, Ellen Cherry went along. She was even grateful at first for this backdoor entry into the New York art scene, although rather quickly she came to think of it as entering a peacock through its rectum. She withdrew.
"In the old days," she complained, "and it wasn't that long ago, artists had the best parties in the world. They had wild and imaginative parties. There was romance, there was colorful behavior and brilliant conversation. Look at these posing contests we're being dragged to! Look at these artists we're being bored by! They're vain as fashion models and shallow as real-estate developers. All they talk about is money. Careers. And will any single one of them look you in the eye? No sirree. They're too busy looking over your shoulder so that if something new should pop up on the horizon, they'll be sure to notice it—and exploit it—before you do."
"I guess that's what I like about 'em," said Boomer. "They aren't these great soaring eagles of genius like I imagined famous artists would be. They're just as

petty as everybody else."
"They weren't always. Artists used to be special. A breed apart. It wasn't
that long ago."
While Ellen Cherry was genuinely disappointed by her introduction to the
New York art world, by the revelation that it was just like Seattle's, only bigger, part of her dissatisfaction may be attributed to the fact that her husband was lionized at the parties, was treated as if he were the creative one, while she, except by the occasional lecher or fancier of ungovernable hairdos, was largely ignored.
Boomer continued to go out. Vanity Fair reported that he was "Ultima Sommervell's favorite escort." The art world took to Boomer Petway. He was a welcome shot of gamma globulin in its jaundiced system. People who ought to know better were delighted with his upbeat redneck manners, his muscles, his aloha shirts and new red beret. When he and Ultima performed the tango at their favorite club, Boomer adding bizarre little variations due to his lame foot, Liberty's torch wasn't good enough to light his cheap cheroots.
Ellen Cherry sat at the Ansonia, wrapped in her belief in the unique and the beautiful, solaced by her eye game, and further comforted by the knowledge that, (1) a check soon would be arriving from the Museum of Modern Art, and, (2) Boomer would ball her with bravura once he got home—although the hour of his homecomings seemed to be inching steadily in the direction of sunrise.
The chain saw didn't run amok in their persimmon grove until that dawn when Boomer, instead of making love to her, wanted to talk about art.
"At least six Palestinian youths were killed by Israeli army gunfire yesterday as demonstrations, strikes, and protests erupted anew in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip after a month-long lull in the uprising.
"The casualty toll for twenty months of strife includes at least four hundred Palestinians dead and about a thousand wounded, according to official figures. Palestinian sources said there were six hundred additional dead and thousands more injured."
Ellen Cherry had programmed the clock-radio to wake her at three in the morning so that she might get up and brush her teeth, thus presenting Boomer with a fresh, minty mouth to kiss when he got home. Instead of music, however, the radio punctured her sleep with the foregoing report from a news service correspondent in Jerusalem.
For some reason, she started wondering what time it was in Jerusalem, if

there were wives there concerned about oral freshness, and whether Israelis and Palestinians used separate brands of toothpaste. She wondered if Jezebel had brushed her teeth on that fatal day when she "painted her face and tired her head" before going to the window. Ellen Cherry lay there wondering these things for a full half hour, but time proved to be of no essence because Boomer didn't show up until quarter past five. By then, bacteria had returned to her scrubbed gums like bathers returning to the beach after a summer storm and were holding sour picnics there and fetid games of volleyball.
Boomer came through the door like The Thinker on ice skates, moving fast, fairly gliding, yet pensive, distracted. Ellen Cherry, reawakened, was set to give her mouth another brushing (bikini-clad microbes could hear the rumble of distant thunder) but changed her mind when Boomer slid into bed with his jeans on.
Optimistic, nonetheless, she snuggled up to him and ran her fingers through his chest hair. As she scratched his pelt, it gave off fumes of stale tobacco smoke so concentrated that they would have asphyxiated the Marlboro Man; but at least, thought she, he didn't reek of Ultima Sommervell. Ellen Cherry had commenced to unbutton his fly when, staring at the ceiling, he asked, "How do people go about making pieces of art?"
"What do you mean?"
"Just what I said. How do you make art?"
"You ought to know. Didn't you make that 'significant' turkey some famous
museum bought and hasn't paid for yet?"
"You know as well as me that I didn't start out to make anything
significant."
"Artists hardly ever start out to make significant art. And if they do, it's
usually a flop. Help me with these buttons, hon." "I don't get it."
"And you're not going to get it if we don't take your pants off."
"If artists don't set out to make significant art, what do they do?"
"Oh, Boomer." She sighed, and abandoned his fly. "Maybe they do set out
to make something significant, in a roundabout sort of way, but it's not like setting out to make something practical or useful. For one thing, it's more like play than work. On the other hand, they don't have a whole lot of choice in the matter. The good ones make art because they have to make it—even though they probably won't understand why until after it's already made."
"But how do they know what to make?"

"That's dictated by their vision."
"You mean it comes to 'em like in a dream?"
"No, no, it's seldom that dramatic. Listen, it's really pretty simple. If there's
a thing, a scene, maybe, an image that you want to see real bad, that you need to see but it doesn't exist in the world around you, at least not in the form that you envision, then you create it so that you can look at it and have it around, or show it to other people who wouldn't have imagined it because they perceive reality in a more narrow, predictable way. And that's it. That's all an artist does."
"You paint landscapes ..."
"Right, but they don't look like the landscapes that nature provides, and hopefully they don't look like landscapes that any other painter has ever provided. If they looked like either one, then there would be no excuse for me painting them—except maybe to earn money or call attention to myself, and those are low motives that lead to low art. Not that artists can't use money. Not that we couldn't use a little around here. What did Ultima say about why that check didn't come?"
Boomer was quiet for such a long time that she thought he must have fallen asleep, but when she regarded his face in the dawn's dairy light, she saw that his eyes were as wide as pinballs. "What are you thinking?" she asked.
"Just studying on what it is that I'd like a gander at but can't see because the world don't have it in stock."
A sudden icy wind razored through the persimmon branches. Elsewhere, they might call the wind Mariah, but here its name was Something Fishy.
"Why, Boomer?"
By the time he got around to confessing that Ultima wanted to market further examples of his art, half of Manhattan was at breakfast, and a persimmon famine was abroad in the land.
Summer and the check for the turkey arrived on the same day, although in separate envelopes. The check so distracted the Petways that they momentarily forgot to sweat.
(That same sweltering mid-June Friday had found the five pilgrims— who'd scooted, toddled, and bounced across the Rockies at the pokey pace of 4.2 miles per night—stuffed into a prairie-dog hole, taking shelter from a line of tornadoes that was coiled on the horizon like the bedsprings of Bluebeard. When an impatient Painted Stick ventured out to investigate, a twister snatched him up, lifting him more than a thousand feet in the air. According to Conch Shell, who

had peeked at the whole thing, the stick beat the lightning right out of the funnel, poked the cyclone in the ribs so hard that it set him down not an arm's length from where it had picked him up. "Goodness! If that had been Mr. Sock," said a flabbergasted Can o' Beans, "he would've blown all the way to Panama." "How the hell do you know?" asked Dirty Sock.)
The turkey had sold for two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. Ultima Sommervell scooped off exactly half of that (dealers had come to regularly charge artists commissions of fifty percent). Of Boomer's half, the gallery withheld nearly forty percent for state and federal taxes. That left seventy-five grand. Boomer's mother needed to be placed in a nursing home, so he contributed twenty thousand toward that. Over Ellen Cherry's strenuous objections, he donated five thousand to the Reverend Buddy Winkler for some religious project that had yet to be adequately defined. He paid nine months' rent in advance at the Ansonia, for the security that was in it: that amounted to eighteen thousand. He handed Ellen Cherry five hundred for art supplies and five hundred for new clothes. The remaining thirty-six thousand was deposited with Manufacturers Hanover Trust in a joint account. Most of it was slated for Boomer's welding shop.
By the end of June, every artist who could afford to, which is to say, every artist who mattered, had left town for Woodstock, Provincetown, or the shores of Maine. The dealers went to the Hamptons. The collectors went to Europe. There were no arty parties, no gallery openings. Artless, or at least, artistless, New York itself went on display, a kinetic sculpture fashioned from taxicabs, steam, and garbage. As the summer wore on, garbage climbing to the sun, steam wisping from each and every armpit, it became increasingly difficult to distinguish homeless mental patients from ordinary citizens driven by stench and humidity to howl in the streets. In the Ansonia apartment, the air conditioner raged like the ghost of Admiral Byrd, but Ellen Cherry hung limp and was often close to whimpering.
One morning Boomer had gone out, ostensibly to check on some shop space that was for rent, only to return within the hour carrying a secondhand trench coat, a couple of yards of nondescript fabric, and a small bag of needles and thread.
"I'm gonna make something," he'd announced. "I'm not saying it's art, but it's something I've always had a hankering to see."
He worked daily, he worked diligently, he worked merrily, whistling as he worked, the way Ellen Cherry used to do. Used to do. For now she found that

she could not work at all. The more involved Boomer became with his project, his stupid sewing, the more alienated she became from her brushes. And from him.
"What exactly's eatin' you, honey?" Patsy asked her.
Ellen Cherry sighed into the heat-sticky phone. "I don't know, mama. I can't paint and I can't fuck and I'm angry all the time. Now I know how a critic must feel."
While Ellen Cherry stewed, Boomer sewed. He sewed through the day, and he sewed through the night. He sewed through July, and he sewed through August. He sewed five hundred secret pockets into that trench coat, and in each pocket he hid a message, each message encoded in a different code of his own invention. It was the spy coat to end all spy coats, and when it was done, his grin was so wide he could have swallowed a Robert Ludlum paperback without bruising his palate.
Ultima Sommervell returned to Manhattan shortly after Labor Day, whereupon Boomer showed her his spy coat with its five hundred secret pockets with their five hundred cryptic messages in five hundred different codes. Ultima found the spy coat fraught, simply fraught, with social significance. She found it a witty and ingenious commentary on the dangerous schoolboy shenanigans of superpower gamesmanship. She locked the coat in her vault and offered Boomer a one-man show the following autumn. The show would be mounted in her SoHo gallery, where all the action was.
Ellen Cherry took the big news gracelessly. She, in fact, spun on her heel and fled the apartment. She walked to the bank, withdrew a thousand dollars, and flew, without toothbrush or a change of underpants, to Virginia. For two days, she cried on her mother's shoulder. Then, fortified with Patsy-wisdom, she flew back to New York, prepared not only to accept Boomer's success (as unfair as it might be) but also to assist him in every way possible during the year that he'd been allotted to prepare for his (undeserved) exhibition.
In her hasty exodus, she had neglected to take a key. When there was no response to her knock, she had to get Raoul to let her into the apartment. Raoul was aware that Boomer had decamped, but he didn't let on. Keeping time with his fingers to some inaudible rhythm, Raoul just looked at Ellen Cherry as if he could tell that her panties were dirty.
There was no note, no forwarding address, no nothing. Nearly a month went by before she learned that Boomer had rented a loft in the Bowery and purchased a new Ford van. It didn't take her anywhere near that long to learn that

their bank account had been closed.
When at last he turned up at the Ansonia, he was neither sheepish nor
defiant. In even tones, and with no more than two or three tugs at his beret, he told her that he was sorry but that her good ol' welder had found him some other fish that he must fry and that the aroma of their frying obviously had been making her sick. She could only agree, but suggested that she might grow accustomed to the smell and that she probably could be of service to him in filleting the fish. "Even if one of 'em is Ultima?" he asked. She bit her lip and shook her head no, but inquired if there might also be room in the pan for her. "If you shear off some of that hair," he joked. She smiled, but she was still biting her lip.
In the seasons that followed, they made several tenuous attempts at reconciliation. Over the winter and into spring, they "dated," enjoying each other's physical presence on the dance floor and in bed but rarely focusing on their problem. Perhaps Ellen Cherry was just too ashamed of her feelings to air them. As for Boomer, well, he had a new life—a life that was supposed to have been hers—and he was as protective of it as she was resentful. In their superficial conversations, the subject of art was strictly taboo, and when once they did broach it, in early May, the result was a bitter quarrel that put an end to the dating, sending Ellen Cherry to Isaac & Ishmael's in search of a job and Boomer back to his Bowery loft in pursuit of something that scared him (or puzzled him) so badly he simply had to lock horns with it. And never, not once, did he reveal to her that the five hundred messages in the five hundred secret pockets all said the exact same thing in five hundred separate codes. They said, "Randolph Petway III loves Ellen Cherry Charles."
~
Six months later . . .
The invitation to Boomer Petway's one-man show Ellen Cherry ripped into tiny pieces, which she let sift into a pile on the coffee table. When she threw herself upon the sofa to have a good cry, half of the pieces in the pile turned into snowflakes, half turned into sparks. The sparks melted the snowflakes, the snowflakes extinguished the sparks—and in the dynamics of their interaction, in the dialogue between snowflake and spark, in the exchange of energy between melt and extinguish, a scrap of wolfmother wallpaper was formed.

The scrap was as silver-white as birch bark, it was tattered and curled at its ends like birch bark, and when a sudden draft blew through the tatters and curls, it made a sound like a war canoe moving downstream, like kites fighting, like shadow puppets mating, like a magician's sleeve disgorging live doves and aces, like a pregnant scarecrow dragging her dugs through the corn, or more exactly, like veils being stripped from the gyrating body of a dancing girl and flung with studied abandon to the temple floor.
Because of her bitter sobbing, Ellen Cherry heard none of this, and by the time she got things out of her system and extricated herself from her sofa of silly sorrow, the noisy scraps had turned back into pieces of shredded invitation. These she scooped up and carried to the garbage bag beneath the sink, where, without looking, she sent them fluttering down upon a surprised creature at the bottom of the sack, as if she had unintentionally sponsored a ticker tape parade to honor a cockroach astronaut: "One small step for a man, one giant leap for mankind, eight itty-bitty speedy little steps for the first stowaway to the moon."
At work the next morning, Ellen Cherry seemed to be walking around with her head in a cud of licorice gum. So dark and sticky was her mood that Abu and Spike postponed their tennis date in order to keep watch on her. They sat at the corner table sipping sugary tea and conversing about Jerusalem, but their habitually vigilant eyes, different in magnitude and hue, monitored her every move— not that she had to make that many moves to oversee a luncheon crowd that could have fit into a rubber life raft and still have left room for the suppressed flatulence of a diplomat.
It had been a fairly rough week in the environs of Jerusalem, a city that never has been a tub of laughs, a rough week for Arabs and Jews alike. When Israeli troops used excessive force to break up a nationalistic demonstration at a West Bank university, a Palestinian student retaliated by lobbing a fire bomb at a passing car, killing a woman passenger and critically burning her husband and three young children. Jewish settlers in the area responded with a vandalizing rampage through a Palestinian refugee camp that was already up to its brown eyes in misery.
"I'm thinking it's the stones," said Spike. "So many stones in the Middle East, already! When you got that many rocks, it's too easy to pick one up and throw it at your neighbor. In olden times, everybody bounced rocks off other people's noodles. Nowadays, Molotov cocktails they throw. Throw, throw, throw. It's a tradition, this throwing."

"From stones to Molotov cocktails to nuclear missiles. Yes," agreed Abu, "it is a sad but logical progression. You know, the Jews' most sacred place in Jerusalem was erected upon the Moriah rock. Today, we Arabs' most sacred place is called 'the Dome of the Rock.' And Jesus reportedly said of Peter, 'Upon this rock I will build my church.' Could we say that in matters of religion we all have rocks in our heads?"
"Hoo boy. By me you could say that."
"Do you ever wonder how the history of the region might have differed if its hills had been forested and green? With time and effort, a man can fashion a weapon from the wood of a tree, but a rock is a weapon to begin with. Palestine is nature's own arsenal. No, Jerusalem is not caught between a rock and a hard place. Jerusalem is a rock and a hard place."
"Jerusalem is getting it in the neck from geology, okay. But, Abu, you tell me: there is a more beautiful city somewhere? You tell me you wouldn't be full from joy what if this morning you could walk down its streets? Ha!"
Spike received no argument there. "The light, Spike, remember the light?" Unconsciously, Abu tapped his radiant nose. "We can complain about rocks until the sheep come home, but it is the golden light of Jerusalem that holds us, that draws us back. Ah, to live in that glow is a religious experience all by itself. No wonder our brothers go crazy there. Even you and I have been made a little crazed by it. It is almost too intense for the soul to bear."
While the proprietors of the I & I were thus engaged, Ellen Cherry went about her duties in a solitary gloom. Every droop, every quiver, every scowl, every silent sigh of hers was registered by the two men, and when at last her shift was complete, they summoned her to their table.
"Do you hear, darlink, what the new dishwasher wants to be called? An 'underwater ceramics engineer,' already! Abu doesn't believe his ears. He doesn't realize what a big shot he used to be in the kitchen. Ha!"
Ellen Cherry tried to laugh, but her chuckle was as thin as the cream on powdered milk. They sat her down, poured her a glass of Kuwaiti wine, and insisted that she explain why her aura looked like the ring around a coal miner's collar. She told them everything.
Without hesitation, Spike Cohen assumed personal responsibility for her suffering. He patted her hand, patted her shoulder, reached down where her legs were crossed and patted the shoe upon the foot that she was dangling. "Now that you tell me the reason behind your sourpuss, I'm going to be bringing the smiles to you, darlink. Plain talk: friends in the art business you need, friends in the art

business I got! Okay? We're talking wholesale, we're talking retail. I'm getting for you your own gallery in what to be showing your nice pictures."
Abu Hadee was slower to respond. When he did, he said, "My dear, I think that you are looking at this all wrong. In regard to your estranged husband's exhibition, you really ought to be more positive."
"But, Mr. Hadee, it isn't fair!"
"And who ever said the world was fair, little lady? Maybe death is fair, but certainly not life. We must accept unfairness as proof of the sublime flux of existence, the capricious music of the universe—and go on about our tasks. ..."
"Abu, you know from nothing. Such injustice—"
"Quiet, Spike. What does Boomer's success, or lack of it, have to do with Ellen Cherry's art? Forgive me, but she reminds me of those crybabies— professional athletes and entertainers are the worst—who are always whining because somebody else in the same position is earning more money than they are. Greed compounded by egomania. It should not concern us what rewards others may reap."
"Okay, but it isn't a question of Boomer getting more recognition or a better show than me. I haven't got recognition or a show at all."
"Only last week you informed me that you have hardly painted since you arrived in New York. Perhaps you need to pay less attention to Boomer's business and concentrate on your own. Rejoice that someone about whom you care has done well. If his work is inferior and undeserving, then let that inspire you to do even better. Take it as a challenge, not an insult. As my father used to say, 'Do not turn slights into bedsores.' A little poem, eh? Rejoice! Paint pictures! Paint, perhaps, something to cover this affliction of bamboo that causes our Middle Eastern restaurant to resemble the hut where Confucius composed fortune cookies. Scenes of Jerusalem would fit the bill."
Between the sympathy of Cohen and the exhortations of Hadee, Ellen Cherry gathered enough traction to spin her tires out of the mud. She thanked her employers, squeezed them, and then set a course for Fifth Avenue, where she suspected the example of Turn Around Norman might give a jet assist to her creakily rising mood. Could she have imagined what other examples were lurking there, there's no predicting at what speeds or in what directions her mood might have spun.
As it was, passing the Japanese restaurants along East Forty-ninth Street, she was reminded that disposable diapers had been invented by Eskimos. It was true. They made them out of seaweed. Someone with a good seaweed supplier

ought to open a combination diaper service and sushi bar, she thought. It would be only appropriate for the menu to stress bottom fish, but good taste might preclude the listing of yellowtail.
~
Spoon was the first to recognize her. "Look!" she squealed. "Look there! It's her."
"Look where, Miss Spoon?" asked Can o' Beans. "To whom are you referring?"
The stocking saw her next. "Well, hang me by the chimney with care!" it exclaimed. "Damned if it ain't. I'd recognize that haystack anywheres."
"Haystack?" asked Can o' Beans. Then he/she spotted a careless harvest of hair-sheaves bobbing in the crowd along Fifth Avenue, and immediately understood. "Amazing!" he/she marveled. "My Miss Charles! Imagine seeing her again! Seeing her in the swarm of New York City! Do you know how long I sat on her shelves?" The three objects pressed closer to the grid of the grate. "She's stopping," said Spoon. "I think she's watching our gentleman." "I'd better notify the leaders," said Can o' Beans, and he/she dropped down from the window grate and wobbled away into the half-lit gloom of the cathedral cellar.
As dusty as it was dark, the sub-basement of St. Patrick's was littered with cardboard boxes, carpet ends, coal buckets, snow shovels, flower baskets, discarded hymnals, blown fuses, and broken sections of pews. To the mobile inanimates, it offered a profusion of hiding places in the event that a custodian or somebody should come snooping around, but so far no one ever had. All in all, it constituted a much safer refuge than most of the barns, silos, junkyards, burnt- out warehouses, pigsties, toolsheds, cemeteries, abandoned cars, freeway ramps, groves, thickets, culverts, and swamps where the quintet had rested days during its eighteen-month march from the Far West to the Atlantic.
Their trek had been long, slow, and perilous, and had taken its toll on each of them. Driven by a mutually held vision of their destiny in the Third Temple of Jerusalem, Conch Shell and Painted Stick had never wavered. Simple curiosity had kept the banged-up bean can going. Dirty Sock, frayed and burr infested, persisted because he thought it would have been sissy to give up. "A winner never quits and a quitter never wins," he reminded himself on those many

occasions when he felt like jumping into a Salvation Army clothing bin and forgetting it all, although he lacked any clear notion of what it was that he might be winning. As for Spoon, her delicate features tarnished and scratched, her impetus resulted in large measure from the gratitude she felt to the Virgin Mary for having answered her prayers and saving Can o' Beans.
To the secularly inclined, it was Dirty Sock who deserved credit for that rescue. It was the sock, after all, that had noticed the welding shop on the outskirts of that little Wyoming town on whose opposite side they had said good- bye to the bean tin. And it was the sock that had rather casually suggested that it had learned enough about welding during its time with Boomer Petway to seal the can's split seam, if only there was a way to physically manipulate the equipment. Throughout the day, concealed in a deserted chicken coop (a place that still stank not only of old hen droppings but of the incessant imbecilic cluck- cluck platitudinizing that would make chickens the perfect constituency for any number of aspiring demagogues), the objects mulled it over. That night, instead of continuing eastward, they backtracked to the churchyard, where, to Spoon's overflowing joy, they found Can o' Beans present and reasonably intact, although industriously beset by a determined battalion of ants. Talk about a work ethic! Ants don't even sleep, perchance to dream. They are the original workaholics. An eminent social scientist has offered a ten-thousand-dollar reward to anyone who will bring him a lazy, laid-back ant. It would be worth every penny, for it would demonstrate that in our unspoken but desperate competition with insects, there is still hope for the human race, especially the Japanese.
At any rate, Conch Shell splashed puddle water on the ants, and Painted Stick dragged Can o' Beans away. They maneuvered him/her through the dark village streets to the welding shop, which they entered by smashing a window.
From the igniting of the oxyacetylene torch to the puddling of the filler rod, from the tacking of the can's separated sides to the forming of a lap joint, Boomer's lost sock knew exactly what needed to be done—and under its expert direction, Painted Stick proved dexterous enough (just barely) to do it.
Once the metal was fused, the seam in the can was actually stronger than when it had come fresh from the factory. Dirty Sock, having absorbed some of Boomer's pride along with his proficiency, insisted that they dress the weld, smoothing down the nicks, burrs, and blisters with a disk sander-grinder. That operation was soon aborted, however, for the sander-grinder threw off a shower of sparks and debris that frightened Spoon, threatened to set Dirty Sock afire,

and caused Conch Shell to worry that they might attract attention from passing motorists.
So, Can o' Beans went out into the world with a rough, high-relief scar running from his/her top to his/her bottom. Along with the deep dimpling dents and the shambles of what had been a label, the can was not a pretty sight. But it was safe, healthy, free—and back with its comrades on the road to Jerusalem. If happiness was daylight saving time, Can o' Beans would have been the twenty- first of June.
"Mr. Sock, dear Mr. Sock, how can I ever thank you?" "Ferget it, perfesser. Now we're even."
From the very first moment that the inanimates had looked through the street-level grate of their new refuge and spotted Turn Around Norman, he had held a maximum of fascination for them. Of all the human beings that they, singularly or together, had ever encountered, he was the most like them. Heretofore, they had neither known nor imagined a human animal who operated on something so similar to object time. Maybe the man or woman in the street could not register his movements, his glacial rotations, but to the five inanimates, they were overt, familiar, and up to speed.
His movements may have conveyed a shock of recognition, but the street performer himself was a novelty to them. He caught their fancy for the inverse reasons that the animated cookie jar in the first Disney cartoons had caught the fancy of human moviegoers. It was anthropomorphism in reverse. And it was refreshing.
Having met not a single priest nor priestess of the Goddess during their cross-country odyssey, having observed but a mere handful of people who openly expressed the values of the Great Mother—who demonstrated affection, respect, or concern for forests, rivers, deserts, marshes, and the moon—Conch Shell and, especially, Painted Stick had lost much faith in the American race. So, although Turn Around Norman in no apparent way embodied the wild old ways, still he was such an exception to what they perceived as the contemporary human rule that shell and stick both paid him the compliment of daily attention. As for the others, they were just about ga-ga: ready to line up for him like pimpled schoolgirls lining up for a rock star.
Beyond identity and entertainment, there was also a practical interest in Norman. The objects had reached the edge of the continent. Between them and Jerusalem were over five thousand miles of open sea. They could not envision

how they might escape the crush of New York City (where even midnight had wide eyes) and conquer the broad Atlantic without aid. Painted Stick and Conch Shell had grown used to human assistance in the past, had come to rely on it just as many in the priesthood had come to rely on them, and despite their disappointment in modern Americans, they maintained an inclination to seek some kind of human help. This strange fellow, who looked like a cross between a cherub and a fiend, and who behaved like a cross between a stone idol and a teapot, was a long shot, but he was all they had.
Then, Ellen Cherry Charles appeared.
In the dimmest corner of the dim sub-basement of St. Patrick's Cathedral, in the darkest grotto to be found within that granite and marble reef, that atoll exuded by the affluently pious and in whose crust so many guilts and longings lay embedded; in a snuggery so somber and deep that no ray of prayer had ever penetrated to it nor any nun come there to secretly dance the boogaloo; in soft, safe shadow insured by obscurity against the knife edges of votive candle flames and the artillery of flashbulbs that fired when newly wed or newly dead celebrities made their exits through the God-size doors; down there where God's little vermin, excluded by force from the congregation, partook of his dank hospitality; there in a homogeneous, socialistic blackness that suppressed the rights of individual colors for "the greater good," there Painted Stick and Conch Shell huddled together in conference or embrace.
"What do you suppose them two do when they slip off like that?" Dirty Sock had once inquired. "They up to something cee-lestial, as they call it, or is it"—he grinned at Spoon—"s-e-x?"
"What's the difference?" Can o' Beans had asked.
"Probably none where you're concerned. You don't even know which sex you are."
"I happen to be both. Which, I daresay, is two more than you. Besides," he/she huffed, "gender is not the same thing as sex."
"Yes, Sock," the spoon had chimed in. "Just because technically you once had a mate doesn't mean you've had experience in carnal matters."
"And I suppose you have?" He had leered at her fiercely.
"Certainly not!" she protested, and if any memory of jelly—the way that jelly jiggled or the way that jelly teased—was aroused in her, she promptly purged it of possible erotic connotation by announcing that she served the Blessed Virgin and would likely choose celibacy even were she of that animate

nature where such a choice would have been more than academic.
As for Can o' Beans, he/she, at that point, might have accused Dirty Sock
of being jealous of Painted Stick, but he/she was reminded of his/her eternal debt to the foul footwear and had backed off. "Mr. Sock is less mean than grumpy," he/she told him/herself, "and while meanness is a function of the insensitive, grumpiness is merely a function of the dissatisfied."
In any case, returning to the moment, whatever it was that the ancient fetishes were doing there in the lightless corner, sheltered by the splayed dog leg of a long-cold furnace, Can o' Beans interrupted them. Too excited to be discreet, he/she blurted out the news of the sighting of Miss Charles and bade them return to the grate at once.
"Is she still there?" the can called as it doddered near.
"Oh, yes," answered Spoon. "She's watching him. She seems entranced." "That's her," said Can o' Beans, nodding, with a mashed and scalloped rim,
toward Ellen Cherry. "She knew all three of us. Miss Spoon, she knew intimately. And she's an artist, not your usual, orthodox young woman. If we're really going to dare to risk human contact, I couldn't imagine a more likely candidate than she. I mean, what do we know, really, about that strange fellow out there?"
"That is her on the steps? The pretty one with the unfortunate hair?"
"Exactly. We've got to do something. We've got to act." Sauce gurgling, Can o' Beans was uncharacteristically bouncing up and down. "We can't just let her walk away."
"Calm down, dear friend. That woman will return. She has been here almost every day."
"She has?"
"Really and truly?"
"No shit?"
Conch Shell laughed. "You three have been so intent upon our semianimate
gentleman that you have completely overlooked your old mistress. She comes here of an afternoon, late, about this time. She stands there and fixes upon him almost as steadfastly as you."
"There exists a connection 'twixt those two," said Painted Stick. "I cannot suppose what it is; it may be no more than the force that pulls a planet into the path of a star. Yet, where our future voyage is concerned, I take it as an omen most fair."
"And I," said Conch Shell. "The fact that she has such interest in him could

mean that she may be capable of accepting us. In any case, she will be back on the morrow, never fear. And the morrow after. We have ample time to meditate on her potential service to us."
The lot of them nodded in harmony. They grew quiet, pressed to the sooty, rusty grate, watching Ellen Cherry watching Turn Around Norman.
"You know," Spoon whispered after a while, "she doesn't seem as merry as she used to be."
Conch Shell was wrong. Ellen Cherry failed to reappear on the morrow—or the morrow after. The bean can and the spoon panicked and had to be assured over and over by Conch Shell that their erstwhile mistress would, indeed, return. Dirty Sock didn't seem to care. "I don't know where you birds get the notion that that woman's some kinda fairy godmother that's gonna whisk us off first-class to Jerusalem. Personally, I think she's damn near a bimbo."
"Sock!"
"Now, Mr. Stocking ..."
"Hey, she took off and left us in that killer cave. If it wasn't for the luck of
the draw, I'd be right now up to my ass in dry rot. And don't forget, little Spoonzie, what she was doing in that cave."
"She's a married woman."
"Uh-huh." Dirty Sock broke into an artificial falsetto. "Call me Jezebel! Oh, please, please call me Jezebel." "That's unfair." The bean can drew up its contents with indignation. "Jezebel was an honorable woman."
"So? What's that gotta do with it? And if Miz Charles is so all-fired married, what's she doing here every day, making eyes at that ol' boy on the street? Where's Boomer Petway, that's what I'd like to know." Like the mother of a bratty brood, Conch Shell scolded, separated, and soothed. She promised them that they might expect Miss Charles's imminent encore. And she hinted that Painted Stick and she were formulating a plan that would utilize their past relationship with the woman to their best advantage. "Now, be good and watch the grate," she said.
Not surprisingly, Ellen Cherry did turn up at St. Patrick's again, although it was not for several days. Her previous visit had seen her sail a twenty-dollar bill into Turn Around Norman's donation box, only to sense immediate disapproval. Norman said nothing, naturally, nor did he make any gesture, yet from his eyes he projected rebuke, projected it so strongly that Ellen Cherry felt it like an actual slap on the wrist. Maybe I've been hanging around too long and tipping

too much, she thought. Maybe he's worried that he's got himself a groupie. She was pleased, though, that he'd become aware of her. She doubted that he had taken particular notice of her before.
A second factor in her decision to boycott Fifth Avenue for a while was the apprehension that she might bump into Buddy again. The preacher had been on TV recently, saying spooky biblical things about the latest bloodshed in Israel, saying those things with a kind of smugness, trying to make the shooting and beating of Palestinian teenagers sound peachy, unavoidable, and right as rain. The idea that some holy prophecy was being fulfilled and that true Christians should be jubilant about it, she found repulsive, and she dreaded having to face the so-called kinsman of hers who was perpetuating that idea.
Thus, for a couple of reasons, she thought it would behoove her to curtail her trips up Forty-ninth Street for at least a week, and she made a vow to that effect. In four days, however, she was back on the cathedral steps. It happened to be the evening that Boomer's show was to open at the Sommervell Gallery, and if she couldn't rely on Turn Around Norman for distraction, for comfort, there was no telling what she might do. She might even get drunk and go to the opening.
Braced against the November chill, hands in coat pockets, legs apart, Ellen Cherry found herself turning with Turn Around Norman, very gradually altering her position so that his back was always toward her. It may be best that he doesn't see me, she thought. I wouldn't want to make him self-conscious. Deprived of the ambivalent allure of his face—that plowed moon sewn with seeds of nettle and narcissus, that pink grapefruit carved with an assassin's dagger—she was free now to concentrate on his feet, and she focused on his grubby Converses, sometimes separately, sometimes both together, alert to their position vis-à-vis one another, vis-à-vis a crack in the pavement. Yet, even as those positions shifted, she was unable to intercept a single signal from brain to muscle or to detect the slightest violation of skeletal freeze. They were like potentates of dirty ice, his sneakers, borne in a circle upon the backs of heated molecules, passengers aboard an imperceptible subhuman squirm.
As incredible as it was, one wouldn't think it exactly compelling entertainment for a girl who'd grown up watching action-packed spectacles on screens large and small—not even for a girl who had transformed each and every show with her eye game and made it her own. In truth, it wasn't what Norman did that bewitched her, but rather that he bothered to do it at all. Certainly, there

was no demand for what he did, less demand than for her paintings. On those rare occasions when it dawned on passersby that Norman was performing, they shook their heads, muttered, and walked away, frowning or smiling, according to their character. Should anyone linger, it usually was to ridicule. The black youths who danced for coins in the area had taken to taunting him ("Why you dance so slow, fat boy? Where you music?"), sometimes poking him painfully in the ribs and stomach with fingers or unopened switchblades. Maybe they wanted his place on the street, maybe they simply didn't know how else to respond to an exhibition that pure, that unmotivated by any ambition that they could share or comprehend. One tended to lose one's bearings in the presence of willful and persistent acts of craziness, and the more gentle the act, the crazier it seemed, as if rage and violence, being closer to the norm, were easier to accommodate.
But was he actually crazy? Ellen Cherry was in no hurry to find out. For now, she was content with the inspiration that he provided, and the oblique solace. This, she told herself, this, and not what's happening tonight at Ultima Sommervell's gallery, or any other gallery, this lonely, uncompromising, obsessive tug-of-war with presumed reality, this is what art is all about.
The bustle of shoppers and tourists sometimes threatened to knock her off the steps and sweep her away into the jaws of this or that commercial transaction; and when the bustle finished with her, the bluster took over, for November had invaded Manhattan with troops of whirling crystal. Still, she stood there, hands in coat pockets, feet wide apart, until she sensed that the performance was abating, at which point she left abruptly, choosing, for once, not to make a donation. If she had offended him with her previous largess, she wished now to draw the sting out of the offense. Moreover, with no financial help from Boomer, who had sunk everything into his loft and his show, and with tips at the I & I almost as scarce as pearls in Cracker Jacks, she really couldn't afford to be generous.
Departing, she fretted for a moment about his health (he wore a scarf, now, and woolen mittens, but no sweater or overcoat), then reasoned that he must have been on the street long before she knew of him and that it was highly presumptuous to assume that his survival in any way depended upon her. She crossed Fifth Avenue, heading for the Seventh Avenue IRT station at Fiftieth Street, and did not look back.
When she had disappeared into the grit and crystal that seemed to be grating against each other in the wind, Spoon and Can o' Beans became mildly distressed. "Do not worry," urged Conch Shell. "Patience, please."

"Yes, Can o' Beans," said Spoon, "we really should be patient. What's our rush? We're objects, don't forget. Besides, even if Miss Charles can help us get to Jerusalem, the last news we overheard from there had it torn by strife."
"That was weeks ago. When we were in the suburbs. The radios that pass by here play nothing but rap music. Sounds like somebody feeding a rhyming dictionary to a popcorn popper."
"While shoving 'em both up a guard dog's ass," put in Dirty Sock.
In spite of him/herself, Can o' Beans had to chuckle.
Spoon ignored the indelicacy. "Well, I'm sure conditions are still hazardous
in Israel. I, for one, don't relish getting caught in one of those violent demonstrations. I can wait. We've come a long, long way, and as our leaders say, we can use a good rest. You, especially, ma'am/sir."
"Doubtlessly, you're correct, Miss Spoon. Every indication is that the Third Temple is not yet on the drawing board, that it may be years, even decades away. Were it built and were we there, what would our role be, anyhow? We're just along for the ride, you and Mr. Sock and I. Still, I'd hate to miss that ride."
"We won't miss a thing, silly. Trust our leaders. And relax."
"You have my word," said the bean can. Then, it pushed its misshapen bulk to the grate and looked anxiously, wistfully at the congested, cacophonous avenue where Ellen Cherry had vanished in the dusk.
Can o' Beans knew something that Spoon did not. He/she knew that if worse came to worst, Conch Shell was capable of swimming the Atlantic Ocean; was capable, too, of towing her navigator behind her. She could tow Painted Stick, but not the rest of them. Therefore, it was the rest of them, the American objects, that were in danger of holding up progress. Since there was surely a limit to how long the stick might endure delay, there was a definite possibility that sooner or later the three of them might have to be left behind in New York. Can o' Beans had been left once. He/she didn't want to chew on that cold bone again. That was why he/she was anxious.
It's a foolish being, a being without vision, who has not formulated a contingency plan, however, and Can o' Beans's contingency plan was this: should they fail to secure the aid they needed to cross the sea, should he/she be deprived of Jerusalem and the momentous events that were promised there, then as second choice, as compensation, and for whatever motive, he/she intended somehow, some way, to get back into the life of Ellen Cherry Charles. That was why he/she was wistful.

~
The subway spat out Ellen Cherry onto the cement welcome mat of a neighborhood bar. Not wishing to insult Fate, which obviously had orchestrated the scene, directing the flow of the crowd to deposit her at that particular place and none other, she went dutifully inside and ordered a shot of Wild Turkey. That's a good girl.
In the time that it took to sip that lone jigger, three different men tried to pick her up. Although she spurned their advances, she was grateful for them. They took her mind off the opening at the Sommervell Gallery, nudging it onto a sidetrack that was slightly less hazardous. Slightly.
Winking at her rejected suitors, she paid up and left without escort. She stopped off at a certain shop on Broadway and made a certain purchase. Five minutes later, carrying a small, plain brown paper bag, she entered the lobby of the Ansonia.
Raoul greeted her. "Hey, Miz Charl! You home from Jerusalem?" He grinned and tipped his immaculate hat.
Ellen Cherry paused and looked him over. Raoul was cultivating a mustache. Wispy little whiskers, as skinny and forlorn as African cattle, wandered the plain beneath his nose. She imagined how they might graze her lips, her nipples, her ticklish belly; how they might assemble at the salt lick that she could offer them. Before she knew it, she was undressing him with her eyes. She didn't intend it, yet she couldn't stop. And when, in her mind, she freed the skimpy Fruta del Telar briefs from the erection upon which they were snagged like a dishtowel caught on a railroad spike, she actually feared that she might swoon. She was so wet she felt as if she had sat on a tomato.
She was virtually at the point of reaching out for him, plastic "brass" buttons, porkpie hat and all, when he said, "Hey, I'm jealous, man."
Startled from reverie, she asked weakly, "What'd you say?"
"Some rich movie star sending you flowers, man. This your birthday?" From behind the desk, he retrieved a long, green floral delivery box, bound with green twine. "You know this Romeo? Man, I'm so jealous."
Ellen Cherry accepted the box. Barely locomoting, locomoting at a speed slightly faster than Turn Around Norman's rate but slightly slower than Painted Stick's, she moved across the black and white checkerboard tiles toward the elevator, opening a tiny envelope as she walked. The card read, "To our most

favorite artist," and was signed, "Spike Cohen and Roland Abu Hadee."
Oh, well. She glanced over her shoulder at Raoul. "Thanks," she called.
Then, patting her brand-new vibrator, sleek and subservient in its protective sack, she boarded the car—leaving Raoul on the verge of composing one of those trite romantic lyrics that, lacking the ivory flame of great poetry, nevertheless stay with a person forever, like a scar, a tattoo, or third-grade arithmetic.
The next morning started up like a fine German car. It was Ellen Cherry's day off, and she slumbered late. When, at last, she was fully awake, motor purring, she wiped the vibrator with a damp cloth, kissed it, and secreted it in a drawer where cotton underpants lived simply but proudly, without envy of satin or lace. "Merci, mon capitaine," she said to the vibrator. "Thanks for a lovely evening."
She prepared an authentic breakfast, the kind God intended for mortals to eat: eggs and bacon and grits and toast. Gone now were the chocolate doughnuts and cold pizza of breakfasts past, gone to the Bowery, where decadence could always find a parking place. Gone, too, the leban zabadi, the creamy Egyptian yogurt of recent morns—but the fact that she'd skipped leban zabadi at breakfast meant that she would likely have to eat it for lunch. Leftovers from the I & I were proving essential to her survival. Once, she'd even brought home baba ghanoug.
It was time to bathe, and she seriously considered inviting Captain Vibrator to bathe with her. "Maybe I should wait until I know him better," she said to the vase of roses on the breakfast table, the roses that Spike and Abu had sent. She bathed with the roses, instead. They floated in the water around her, all one dozen of them, rubbing velvet faces against her, sometimes pricking her with their tiny thorns. "Acupuncture," she said. "I needed that." Petals came loose like pages from a magazine about aphid life-styles, only to be trapped in webs spun by spiders of soap. Ellen Cherry pasted wet rose petals on her nipples, plastered one under her nose like a comedian's mustache. "Springtime for Hitler," she said. Outside, it was November, and the margarita glasses of the skyscrapers were salted with frost.
Sanitary now, and most casually attired, she wrapped the drowned roses in newspaper and laid them with the garbage. "They wouldn't have lasted anyway," she told herself, drying her hands on her sweatshirt. "Not for long. They were grown in a hothouse. Hothouse flowers wither fast, just like hothouse art." She

was referring to the art that was grown under the artificial lights of fad and fashion, overly fertilized with personal ambition and deprived of those weathers that evolve strong systems in the slow, hard garden of belief. Perhaps she was referring to the kind of art on display at that moment at Ultima Sommervell's gallery. She didn't expound. Rather, she shut the door on the roses, consigning them to oblivion beneath the sink, and set up her easel. Mr. Hadee was right: it was time to stop hurting and start painting.
Since moving to New York, she had been gradually abandoning her old ideas about the nobility of suffering. The more suffering she witnessed—and the New York art world was wormy with it—the less she subscribed to it. Some pain came with the territory, of course, but most suffering artists were narcissists, she was starting to believe. Narcissistic artists seemed attached to agony, to the writhe and the whine, to the yowl, the howl, and the botched suicide; their fits of despair (preferably in public) carefully timed to impress the seriousness of their aesthetic upon critics and collectors. In the past, she'd embraced the suffering artist image, she supposed, but in her heart she had always considered artisthood more of a privilege than a curse, and those to whom the creative life brought only misery, she now invited to go into food service. The world could always use another waitress, another fry cook.
Upon the easel, she set the last canvas that she had completed, a reasonably realistic portrait of Boomer Petway, executed from memory two weeks earlier. Impulsively, with a loaded brush, she gave him the long, coiled tongue of a frog. She stepped back and squinted. And she saw that it was good.
In addition to the frog tongue, in whose banderole she painted a fly, Ellen Cherry gave Boomer the black, bumpy tongue of a chow dog. Then she rooted in his mouth the soda-straw tongue of a butterfly and the Y-flick tongue of a boa. She gave him a woodpecker's tongue, arrowheaded and barbed; an ox tongue, muscular, broad, and hung with drool; and, finally, the shy, happy tongue that the porpoise employs to push the waves to shore. After the seventh tongue, she rested. Then she began to work on his ears.
There was nothing disrespectful in her alteration of the portrait. The tongues lacked any psychological or symbolic significance. It was a painterly act, a purely visual experiment. "Don't take it personally," she said to Boomer's picture. "I'm just having fun."
"Why didn't you come to my opening last night?" Boomer's picture said back to her.

Obviously, the picture didn't speak. Even with seven tongues, it was mute, as all pictures are. However, so certain was Ellen Cherry that Boomer would be confronting her with that very question, perhaps before the day was through, that her unconscious mind forced the words from the picture's mouth.
The words had an accusatory tone. After she heard them, after she imagined that she heard them, she couldn't paint anymore. She laid down her brushes. A lot of leban zabadi would run under the bridge before she would pick them up again.
In the lobby of the Ansonia, there was a public telephone. To demonstrate her independence from Patsy, the newlywed Ellen Cherry had elected not to install a phone when she and her groom had moved into the apartment, and now she didn't think that she could afford one. So, it was to the pay phone that she descended, bearing the coin of the realm. She was in her painting clothes, spattered and baggy. Thank Jesus Raoul isn't on duty yet, she thought.
Boomer sounded sleepy. He must have been still a-bed. It was half past noon, but, then, he would have had a big night. She wondered if Ultima was lying there beside him.
"It's me," she said. "I just wanted to say I'm sorry I didn't get to your opening."
"No problem," he said. "I didn't really expect you." "You didn't?"
"Nope."
"Why not?"
"Well . . . let's just not talk about it."
He sounds strange, she thought. Strange and cold. Beyond hangover. Had his show been a total fiasco? It wouldn't have surprised her. He was in way over his head, and no beret could hide it. "Why can't we talk about it?"
"Why should we talk about anything important? Spoil our perfect record." She was taken aback. "You're kidding. We've always talked."
"Horseshit, Ellen Cherry. We never talked. We traded wisecracks.
Wisecracking is not talking."
She started to refute him, but couldn't muster any ready evidence to support
her objection. While she was trying to remember the last time they'd had a heart- to-heart, he broke the silence with an outburst. "You know how come we never talked? 'Cause you never believed I could talk. Not on your level. I couldn't talk about art. I didn't understand art. I didn't, in fact, give a big rat's ass about art.

And in your opinion, that made me inferior, you know; some kind of second- class citizen like all those other clods in Colonial Pines. ..."
"No! You were different. And I loved you."
"You never loved me. You never. You loved to the left of me and to the right of me, maybe. You loved above me and underneath and in back of me somewheres. But you didn't love me. You loved my biceps and my big ol' welder's cock, and the way I danced and the way I was looser and more free than you. That's what the hell you loved. It turned you on that I could be uninhibited, because the only place you're free is on a piece of canvas. In art, you can break loose of your restraints. Otherwise, you're tight as the peel on a turnip."
"Hey! Hold on, buster. I don't know that you're so uninhibited. Lot of things you wouldn't do. It was you who wouldn't call me Jezebel.'"
Boomer paused. He lowered his voice. "That's another story, that is." "Yes, isn't it?"
"Yeah, it is."
"Another story entirely."
"You can say that again."
But she didn't say it again. She didn't say anything for a while, and neither did he. Then they spoke out at the same time, in ironic unison.
"The trouble with you—" she began.
"The trouble with you—" he started. His voice, being the stronger of the two, won the right to proceed. "Is that the only way you can communicate is through art. You've never learned to communicate your feelings to a man. You don't even want to communicate in a relationship. You think if you open up to love, you'll lose your independence or your self-expression or creativity or whatever you call all that passionate, wonderful stuff that makes you feel alive inside. Patsy warned me that you'd never wanna have kids, 'cause raising babies would siphon off that juice that makes your paintings go-"
"My mama never—"
"Oh, yeah, she did! You say you love me, and maybe in a peculiar way you do, but you don't love me for myself. You never have. When I was just a welder, you looked down on me. You didn't really want me till you thought you couldn't have me, till you saw me climbing that ladder you thought was up against your wall. If I was to go back to being a welder, Ellen Cherry, if I was to come back uptown to you, you wouldn't be thrilled with it for more than about two days. 'Cause after you got through having orgasms, you'd have to have a relationship, and that's a sideline you don't care to more than dabble in. You can't be married

to a man 'cause you're already married to your art."
It was her turn, but she hadn't the belly for major counterattack. Softly, but
with practiced conviction, she said, "Art is the only place a person can win." "It may be the only place you can win. I believe we can win any damn
place we try."
"The trouble with you, Boomer—"
"Yeah, go ahead now, tell me the trouble with me."
"You think the world is a piñata. You think if you keep hitting it and hitting
it, smacking it and banging it, one day it'll bust open and all the prizes will fall out at your feet."
He considered that analogy for a moment. Then he said, "Well, I didn't do that bad last night."
"Oh?"
"Sold every damn piece but one. And if I care to travel with it, that one's sold, too."
Ellen Cherry was gelatinous with shock. She had to steady herself against the lobby wall. "Why . . . why, that's incredible, Boomer. That must have been . . . incredible ... for you."
"It was right nice. Not all that sensational, really. It woulda been better if you'd showed up. I mean, I kinda thought you might. I appreciate how envious and bitter you are, and I don't blame you. You know a trillion times more about art than me. But I've learned that it isn't necessary to know all that much. You just make what you wanna see, right? It's a game, right? It's like being paid for dreaming." He laughed. "I feel like an undercover agent. A mole in the house of art. Anyhow, Ellen Cherry, I started out doing it 'cause I wanted to understand you and earn your respect. Then, I reckon, I wanted to show you up, 'cause you've always acted so goddamned superior about it. Now, I don't know. It's gotten out of hand. Maybe I'm hooked on it, although I feel guilty sometimes. Guilty about you—and guilty about people taking a fool like me so seriously, and guilty 'cause it's so much fun, in a real nerve-racking, useless sort of way. But that don't matter. I was heartsick that you didn't come to the opening. I reckon that's why I'm pitching a tizzy this morning. Is it still morning?"
They were silent for several literal minutes. A recorded voice came on the line and instructed Ellen Cherry to deposit additional coins.
After the last nickel dropped, with a hollow yet musical clink, like a robot passing a kidney stone, Boomer asked, "What're you thinking?"
"I don't know. What are you thinking?"

"Oh, well, I was thinking that what was said just now probably needed to be said, but after saying it, I'm starting to think that maybe wisecracking is not so bad, after all."
She smiled in such a way that down in the Bowery, on the other end of the line, he could tell that she was smiling. There are smiles that actually travel along telephone wires, although no engineer at Bell Laboratories could explain how it works.
Boomer answered the smile. "Folks take art too seriously. Did I say that already? But, you know, they take their relationships too seriously, too. I sure used to. Then, you did. This morning, I reckon we both are."
"Seems like I used to know that, but then I forgot. Like a strong swimmer who one day just up and drowns."
"You cramp and you sink. It can happen to anybody. You let love lay too heavy in your stomach ..."
"People tend to take everything too seriously. Especially themselves."
"Yep. And that's probably what makes 'em scared and hurt so much of the time. Life is too serious to take that seriously."
Another smile ran along the wires on its badly bowed legs. "I want to see your show. I do. I will. Soon as I whip up the nerve. Then, maybe sometime we could get together and wisecrack a bit."
"All right," he said. "Let's us do that. I'll be in touch. Right after I get back from Jerusalem."
~
Jerusalem. Jeru Salaam. "City of Peace." The only humorous thing about it was its name. Thirty-seven wars (not battles but wars) fought over it. Reduced to ashes seventeen times by seventeen different conquerors. Each time rebuilt—and each time coveted anew.
Jerusalem. A dry and hilly provincial pit stop on the windy road to nowhere. Lacking a port, lacking strategic fortress sites, lacking fertile fields around it. No trees to cut, no fish to net, no ore to mine, little but thistles for its flocks to chew. A location with almost nothing to offer, yet desired by everyone. Desired for three thousand years.
Jerusalem. Jeru Salaam. Shaped out of pure spirit, irrigated with spurting gore. Incessantly blackened by arson and blood, only to be polished to a golden

shine again by prayerful knees and unwinding scrolls of dreamlike prophecy. Jerusalem. When they could no longer bear to hear its children screaming, stones went deaf all over the world.
Jerusalem. A mystical metropolis with seven magic gates. Entered by few, forgotten by none. Simultaneously the capital of death and the seat of immortality. Hub of the wheel of pilgrimage. Focal point of all received starlight. Fly-specked mirror of heaven on earth. Jumping-off place to eternity. The town that logic could not shut down. That city, among all cities, into which both the Second Coming and the Redemption have been booked and to where both the Christ and the Messiah are said to be holding tickets. Jeru Salaam.
As far as Boomer Petway was concerned, Jerusalem was founded in Sunday school and developed on the six o'clock news. It was not a place that anyone actually visited. It wasn't even a place one discussed, unless one was a religious or political nut (which was getting to be the same thing). Yet, now he heard himself saying that he was going there, and although such a journey seemed even less real to him than his rise in the art world, he conceded that it was probably true.
Throughout his adult life, Boomer had saved the cardboard tubes out of toilet tissue rolls. He wasn't sure why. He had been given the little cylinders to play with when he was a tot, and some affinity for them had likely carried over into his manhood. In any case, he had more than a decade's worth of toilet tissue rolls stored in the attic of his Colonial Pines bungalow, and when he commenced to make art, he drove his van down to Virginia and loaded them up. Hundreds of them. He sprayed them with black acrylic, and when they were dry, he employed them like Lincoln Logs to construct a sort of hut, five feet wide and seven feet high. Inside the structure, he released a live crow. The crow was provided with a perch made of bathroom tissue rolls (black, like the others), as well as a black plastic water dish and a black ceramic bowl that was kept filled with a dark variety of sunflower seeds. This piece was mounted in his one-man show under the title of Ministry of Covert Operations.
A curator from the Israel Museum in West Jerusalem's Givat Ram was sufficiently attracted to the piece to make an offer. The Israeli would purchase it on condition that Boomer accompany it to Jerusalem and personally reassemble it in time to be included in an exhibition dealing with issues of national security as seen through the eyes of artists. That exhibition was set to open in less than two weeks.
Ultima thought it a good idea, even though it would mean removing the

piece from her gallery ahead of schedule. Boomer, who wasn't completely convinced that Jerusalem existed, said that he'd think it over. It wasn't until he heard himself informing Ellen Cherry of his departure that he realized that he had already decided to escape the pressures of his estranged wife, his dealer, and his sudden fame, and jet off with a cargo of toilet paper rolls and a cantankerous pet crow to that puzzling city that has been variously described as the Eye, the Navel, the Song, and the Hemorrhage of the world.
Boomer flew out of JFK in mid-November, expecting to be back in Manhattan for Thanksgiving. Sardined into his carelessly packed satchel, among the jeans, boxer shorts, aloha shirts, and compatible couples of socks, was a single purple stocking that, except for some dubious sentimental value, would have been ash-canned ages ago. Yes, as the ever perverse proclivities of Fate would have it, Clean Sock—Clean Sock!—was winging to Jerusalem.
Were the unsuspecting and fortuitous traveler's long-lost twin apprised of the situation, profane oaths would have popped like corks in the basement of St. Patrick's Cathedral, and it would have kicked itself from one end to the other of that environment that, to its thinking, was only slightly less dreary and confining than the inside of any sock drawer.
So, it was just as well that Dirty Sock did not know. He lay, curled and otiose, in front of the grate, innocently awaiting the appearance of Turn Around Norman, paying only a modicum of notice to Can o' Beans as he/she, in his/her way, speculated to Spoon about the possible size, shape, and significance of the Third Temple of Jerusalem.
*
Of the Seven Dwarfs, the only one who shaved was Dopey. That should tell us something about the wisdom of shaving.
If Can o' Beans were a man, it's probable that he/she would be bearded. Some, at least, could imagine the bean can sporting a neatly trimmed vandyke, or else something Lincolnesque; dressed, maybe, in a white suit, frayed of cuff and buttercupped with age; and supported by an eagle-headed cane; imagine the can pensively twirling a snifter of cognac as it pontificated before a library fire at the Explorers Club.
Perhaps that projection is far too narrow, far too simplistic to do justice to a complex figure, but no matter. As it was, facial hair and the dopey removal thereof was no issue for the tin of beans. It simply did its dignified best to protect what was left of its label as, misshapen and scarred, it squatted atop a

soot-powdered hymnal, which in turn lay atop an overturned coal bucket, straining to make itself heard above the mad waltz of traffic whose goosey crescendos honked and hissed through the grate. Nevertheless, the dessert spoon that sat at its feet could not have been more attentive had it raised a hand from time to time to stroke a pedagogish tassel of whiskers.
For Spoon's benefit, Can o' Beans had reviewed the information about the First Temple—Solomon's (or Hiram's) Temple—that had been imparted upon that shaky, pessimistic day in the aftermath of their ordeals in the Wyoming mountains. Now, he/she was reviewing aloud what they had learned of the Second Temple—Herod's Temple— from accounts provided, at Can o' Beans's prodding, during a siesta in a fossil bed in northwestern Nebraska.
"I suppose we ought to keep the dates straight," said Can o' Beans. "Solomon's Temple was destroyed in 586 B.C. Right? The Second Temple, its low-rent replacement, was knocked together in 515 B.C. That would mean that for, let's see, seventy-one years, Jerusalem had no temple at all. Of course, most of the Jews were in exile in Babylon during that period, so there would've been no reason for a temple in Jerusalem town. But by 515—aren't you glad, Miss Spoon, that inanimate objects don't live in history? At least, not in one that requires us to memorize dates. We're luckier than we admit. No historical dates, no common cold, no income tax, no toe jam, toothaches, dandruff, herpes, halitosis, heartburn, or body hair. Especially body hair. Ugh! Although a smart goatee might be agreeable."
"Dry rot," growled Dirty Sock.
"Begging your pardon?"
"At least humans don't dry rot. Or rust."
"Oh, I'm not so sure," Can o' Beans disagreed. "Remember those old
Republicans we saw at that rally in Iowa?" Spoon tittered. "But, say, Mr. Sock," the can went on, "do you happen to recall the date when King Herod is said to have renovated the Second Temple?"
"Sure do. It was back in the year twenty-one afore Christ that the ol' boy come across that fixer-upper." Dirty Sock rolled over and turned his full attention to the street, leaving Can o' Beans and Spoon to gape at each other in mild amazement.
It was during the Babylonian exile that the patriarchs finally got their monotheistic ducks in a row. In the tens of centuries that had rolled by since the tribe of Abraham made the political decision to promote its local tribal deity,

Yahweh, as the one and only god in the cosmos, worship of the Great Mother had continued in Judea and Israel. Ancient Jews loved the Goddess, loved her wisely and well, and even when they came to accept Yahweh, they kept a shrine for her—in their temples and in their hearts. Astarte, or Ashtoreth, as they called her, reigned in the First Temple of Jerusalem alongside Yahweh and, periodically, in place of him, a state of affairs that rankled the right-wing misogynists of the Yahwehistic extreme.
In exile, however, the Jews were unified as they never could have been at home. Oppression and homesickness strengthened their common bond. The more the Babylonians mocked the macho Yahweh, the tighter the Hebrews clung to him as a unique, indigenous cultural icon. Spurred by the prophet Ezekiel, the patriarchal priests hastened to take advantage of the situation.
It was in Babylon that the heretofore multitudinous, unmanageable laws and rituals of Judaism were edited and codified. New traditions, such as the synagogue, were established. And a stern, broad, inspiring dogma was hammered out of the ancient desert ores that they had hoarded and slowly refined in the fire of their longing. From that time on, a shield of dogmatic brass would deflect every tendered kiss of the Mother. So great was the patriarchs' hatred and fear of her that she was left unnamed in their transcriptions. When referred to at all, it was as some vague, unspeakable, whorish pagan evil.
By 538 B.C., when the jubilant exiles were permitted to return to a desolated Judea (it had been leveled in the Babylonian invasion, remember), nearly a half-century of reprogramming would have purged them of their matriarchal affection. It was for the glory of Yahweh and Yahweh alone that they rebuilt their nation, their capital, and their Temple. The Second Temple, although as large as the First, was simple and plain; an odd, impoverished, jerry-built, unembellished religious blockhouse erected upon a pile of rubble. Neither the Goddess nor Conch Shell and Painted Stick would ever see the inside of that particular version—but their days and nights on the Temple Mount were not yet done.
"Yes, my goodness, yes," said Spoon, "it's coming back to me now. We were in that place with all the old petrified creepy-crawly things, and you were under the impression that Conch Shell and Painted Stick had been subjected to some kind of exile of their own, but Conch Shell explained that once they had escaped the rampage of the Babylonian troops, it had been business as usual, as far as their lives were concerned. Wasn't that the story, ma'am/sir?"

"Correct. Under cover of darkness, as the expression goes, Mr. Stick and Miss Shell stole down from the Mount of Olives and made their way by starlight to a village, I forget its name, where they knew their goddess to be adored, and there they laid themselves on the doorstep of a priestess. In the morning, they were taken in, no questions asked, dusted off, kissed, and placed immediately upon an altar. Because the Babylonians were lovers of Ishtar, the occupation wasn't hostile to those activities that Mr. Stick and Miss Shell were employed in. Judea was bread-and-water poor then, I guess; populated by a scattering of downtrodden shepherds, and it surely was a far cry from their glory days in Temple Number One, but our friends apparently were busy and content. As Mr. Stick put it, human folly does not impede the turning of the stars. During the exile, they were at work, never more than a few miles from Jerusalem. What was left of Jerusalem."
"But after the Jews returned . . ."
"Ah, after the return it was a different ball game. Idolatry was no longer tolerated."
"As well it shouldn't be," said Spoon, with a squeaky firmness. She rotated her dainty stem toward the far corner where the shell and the stick were conferring. "No offense intended."
"My dear," said Can o' Beans, "don't you see that an 'idol,' so-called, is usually just a derogatory name for the other fellow's god. To a non-Christian, a statue of Jesus could be considered an idol."
"Blasphemy! There's only one god."
"And who is that, Miss Spoon? That silversmith in Philadelphia who made you?"
"You know very well who I mean."
"I could take a wild guess. As an object, however, I confess to being bewildered by the whole rigamarole of religion. And I'm convinced that the way Mr. Stick and Miss Shell are involved in it is not at all the same as the way humans are involved. In the Bible, an 'idol' is any deity other than Yahweh. But there's a second definition of 'idol' that describes it as an object that humans worship. An object, Miss Spoon. One of us. Why, you or I could be 'idols,' if only someone cared enough. Can you imagine Spoonism? Or the Bean Can Cult? The Church of the Dirty Sock? No, I can see that you can't. No matter. You would have fit in quite well in post-exile Jerusalem, although I daresay there was precious little crème caramel being spooned thereabouts. But our friends didn't fit in anymore. And after several decades underground, so to speak, they were

smothered inside a basket of wool and secreted to Phoenicia on the rump of a camel."
"Scary."
"Exciting."
"A tribulation."
"Or an adventure. Depending on your outlook. In any case, they remained
in Phoenicia for a very long time. After the Greeks took over Judea, I believe that was around three hundred thirty-something B.C., wasn't it, Mr. Sock—oh, he's not listening—they very well could have come back—the Greeks loved beautiful things and were pagan to the tips of their sandals—but our stick and shell were suitably occupied in their native Phoenicia, apparently, and happy to be there."
"But separated."
"Well, yes, Miss Shell was serving in a splendid temple in Sidon, Jezebel's old hometown, and Mr. Stick was at sea a lot. On long voyages, Phoenician ships often had priests aboard, and they found a use for Mr. Stick. A combination of scientific and spiritual duties, it sounds like."
"They were separated."
"No, in ancient times, the scientific and the spiritual were virtually synonymous. At the higher levels, they still are."
"I'm not talking about that, you big silly. I mean Conch Shell and Painted Stick were separated. How sad."
"Do you really think they were sad about it? Maybe they were. At any rate, they got back together eventually. Reunited in Herod's Temple. Just like a Hollywood movie."
"Sigh."
Herod was a Semite, half-Hebrew, in fact, and king of Judea, but he had "Property of the Roman Empire" stamped on his backside, and nobody would let him forget it. He stood on his head and spit shekels in an attempt to win favor with the Jews, but liking Herod was harder than trying to explain quantum radiation on a Mexican postcard. The pillaging, the rape, the torture, humiliation, and butchery visited upon Jerusalem's Jews over the centuries by various foreign contingents were simply too great and too horrendous to ever, ever be forgotten. Herod could part his hair like a Jew, shine his shoes like a Jew, trim his wick like a Jew, and spit in the whiskers of every pig he passed, but having received half of his chromosomes from Edom, and his throne (and license to tax) from Rome,

he was considered an opportunistic foreigner who could not, would not be trusted.
During the thirty-three years of his reign, Herod did everything but wiggle his ears to wow Jerusalem, including restoring its architecture and religion (the buildings that originally had replaced those demolished by the Babylonians were functional, at best, and the practice of Judaism had been brutally restricted toward the end of the Greek occupation). Although Herod's friendly overtures were appreciated, even applauded, he remained personally unpopular until that time when, in a final magnanimous gesture, he set about to renovate and glorify the Second Temple.
Unattractive to begin with, the Second Temple had been reduced to practically a burnt-out shell by Hellenistic antagonists. Nevertheless, it had stood for four centuries, and the rituals performed therein had so impressed a visiting Alexander the Great that he consented to leave it standing. Everyone was excited, if suspicious, when Herod whipped out the hammer and the paintbrush. But Herod did it up right.
To assuage the fears of his subjects that he would pull down the existing temple and then be unable or unwilling to complete his grand design, Herod spent eight years gathering materials and selecting and training a work force. The inner buildings were built by a crew of one thousand Hebrew priests, laying every stone according to some arcane religious law.
The overall structure, with its retaining walls, cloisters, massive pillars, and courtyards within courtyards, covering thirty-six acres, was virtually a carbon copy of the First Temple, which is to say, ironically, it was an ancient and thoroughly pagan Phoenician or Canaanite design. (As Can o' Beans had learned that day in the fossil bed, Phoenicians and Canaanites were really the same people, their chief difference being that the branch of the race called Phoenicians were coastal dwellers and seafarers, while Canaanites lived inland in the deserts and hills. Incidentally, Canaan meant "land of the purple" in a Near Eastern dialect, precisely what Phoenicia meant in Greek, so both branches were indelibly colored by the royal dye of the conch.)
Herod's embellishments turned out to be every bit as lavish as Solomon's. The Temple and its enclosures were covered with plates of silver and gold, so much gold that Josephus claimed that men literally went blind from temple- gazing on sunny summer days. From a distance, it shone like the sun itself.
Perhaps unconsciously, certain pagan compounds were stirred into the mixture. Josephus mentioned that the Temple roofs were "adorned with cedar,

curiously graven," and surrounding the inner buildings were rich spoils that Herod's armies had pillaged from Arab countries. The lintel above the entrance to the Temple proper was "adorned with embroidered veils, with flowers of purple." Purple, mind you. And from the crownwork hung carved vines of purple grapes, clusters "as tall as a man." At the back of the foyer, giant gold-plated doors were concealed by what was described as "a Babylonian curtain ... of fine linen ... in scarlet and purple," and "embroidered upon it all that was mystical in the heavens excepting that of the twelve signs." While the priests may have sought to avoid depicting the animalistic aspects of astrology, they didn't hesitate to include celestial symbols: the first enclosed section of the Temple contained a candlestick with seven branches for the seven planets that were known, and a table upon which rested "shew-bread—twelve loaves representing the circle of the zodiac." And wittingly or not, they paid tribute to the most intimate feature of the Goddess, when to the ceremonial garments of the high priests they attached sweet little vaginal pomegranates of solid gold.
So overshadowed were these vestiges of nearly forgotten paganism by the trappings and rituals of Yahwehistic Judaism that even purists glossed them over. Yahweh would be honored in those halls more exclusively and magnificently than he had ever been honored before.
Alas, just when Herod had the Jews in his debt, had them trusting enough to buy a used chariot from him, he blew it. As the Temple was about to be dedicated, following eleven years of planning and perspiration, he had to go and stick a huge Roman eagle over its main entrance. That act infuriated the Hebrews, not only by its arrogant, insensitive tribute to hated foreign overlords, but by its signal—to those aware enough to interpret it—that paganism once again would be allowed to infiltrate and pollute Yahweh's central authority. Indeed, not many years passed before first Conch Shell and then Painted Stick were quietly reinstated in the Temple household.
~
The autumn moon is the color of nectarines and iron.
It is swollen and dizzy, like a hashish dumpling.
After it sets, all the gold in the Temple sighs with relief.
But its colors linger on in the grapes that pout on the vine. The priest awakes before dawn. He puts his pomegranates on.

And he walks on down the hill.
He comes to a pure little spring, below the Temple walls.
He dips a conch shell in the gurgling waters.
And he walks back up the slope.
Pomegranates jingling like sheep bells, the priest carries the shellful of
water to the sacred enclosure.
The area is illuminated by thousands of candles.
Each candle is meant to be a star.
Slowly, slowly now, the priest pours the water onto the ground.
A conch tongue of clear water licks the old stone pulse.
While a candle galaxy bristles with secrets of the night.
Over and over, the priest makes the journey. Sky to water. Water to earth.
Earth to sky.
Until the sun rises and gives the gold something new to fret about.
~
Thus, for the last part of its five-hundred-year life, the Second Temple integrated the old religion into the new. Married spirit to soul. Provided a functional metaphor for transcendence. Drew human individuals into the cosmic cycles in a real and personal way.
Conch Shell served as a chalice to cup the juices of existence. Painted Stick was a rod for psychic lightning, a post to which the Milky Way was moored.
Passing under the hated Roman eagle, ignoring its military talons the way the other pilgrims did, young Jesus would have witnessed those ceremonies. In contrast to the hypocrisy, doctrinairism, and corruption that was becoming rampant among the Temple hierarchy (and that would soon incite him to open revolt), Jesus must have found the rituals nourishing. On the other hand, they may have made him uncomfortable. Certainly, those who were to establish a religion in his name were uncomfortable with them. For those who would pray but not dance, fast but not feast, baptize but not splash, flog but not fuck, for those who would buy spirit but sell soul, crown Father but deceive Mother, those men found Herod's Temple a threatening place at vernal equinox and under a harvest moon.
As Can o' Beans recounted the rites, all that he/she had learned about them from the reticent stick and shell, Spoon felt a teensy bit uncomfortable, herself.

There was a beauty and grace in them that appealed to her refined sensibility, but they made her queasy, nonetheless. The part that really made her squirm, however, was the part about Salome. How the teenage Salome had driven her stepfather, poor beleaguered King Herod, over the brink of sanity the night she danced the Dance of the Seven Veils, skinny legs and all.
"That must have been some dance," said Can o' Beans. "Herod never got over it."
"Oh, but ma'am/sir, it wasn't just that lewd hootchey-kootch that sickened Herod. He was already suffering from melancholy and rejection. Why, to entice Salome to dance, he had to promise to behead John the Baptist. Served up the head on a silver platter. Ooo, isn't that just too gross! A human head on a dish like a pot roast. I can't bear to think about it."
"It was Herod's wife, supposedly, Salome's mother, who wanted John the Baptist killed."
"No matter. Herod agreed to it. Just to get a good look at that young girl. Kiddie porn, they call it nowadays. . . ."
"She was sixteen. In that era, a sixteen-year-old was in every respect a woman."
"Not the point, begging your pardon. The point is that it was Herod's own accumulated wickedness that drove him crazy, not some shameful feminine display."
"Perhaps you're right, Miss Spoon. Who knows what causes the human brain to split its britches. It would seem that the brain hangs so many curtains between itself and the true universe that eventually light can no longer reach it, and it molds and rots and festers in the dark. In any event, the king of Judea had a lot of spit in his harmonica. By the time Salome's dance was done, he was playing a feeble tune, indeed. Defiant Jews cut down the Roman eagle from the Temple while he was still alive, slobbering and raving on his couch."
"Good for them. Finally, he was too drunk and depraved to stop them from cleansing God's house."
"Well, the eagle was gone, but the Temple didn't change all that much. Miss Conch still poured at festival times, and Mr. Stick was always on hand if some priest should take a notion to stir the stew of sex and stars. He'd become their compass needle, in a sense, pointing to the north from where their Messiah was prophesied to come. And there was plenty of commercialism, plenty of corruption left in the Temple, as well. Remember how Jesus was said to have

grabbed an ox whip and driven the money changers out?"
"Herod had passed away by then."
"Yes, he died while Jesus was a child. Miss Shell and Mr. Stick, by the way,
have no recollection of this Jesus fellow at all. According to them, he had precious little impact on Jerusalem until four decades after he was crucified. But I know you don't want to talk about that. The thing to bear in mind is that the situation got generally worse for the Jews after Herod expired. Rome clamped down. The Jews resisted. Clamp. Resist. Clamp. Resist. Until finally the Romans got fed up with the constant hassle and, in 70 A.D. , razed Jerusalem yet again. Again! Can you imagine? Just obliterated it. Killed a million people. General named Titus plundered the Temple, stripped it bare, and sailed for Italy with all of its treasures. The spoils were put on public view in a place called the Temple of Peace. From the City of Peace—Jerusalem—to the Temple of Peace in imperial Rome. Humans tend to use the word peace rather loosely, don't you agree? That disregard for the true meaning of words may be one of the main reasons their brains go bad. Did I ever elucidate my theory—"
"Indeed, you did, ma'am/sir," Spoon hastened to inform the can. "Quite adequately. Sticking to the subject, if you don't mind: Conch Shell and Painted Stick, they weren't abducted to Rome."
"They were the type of booty that a military mind such as Titus would be inclined to overlook."
"Somebody thought enough of them to save them."
"Fortunately. Some Phoenician slave. Stole them out of the Temple ruins and hightailed into the wilderness. Miss Shell contends that there're always a few enlightened human beings around who have need for her. Even today. Maybe more today than there's been in a long, long while. That's why she and Mr. Stick are active again. I don't know. Miss Spoon, it smacks of wishful thinking to me. Magic and enlightenment at the end of the twentieth century? This wild idea of a Third Temple?"
"Oh, goody, the Third Temple," chirped Spoon, relieved that the history lesson was over. She adored to hear Can o' Beans expound, but the version of biblical events that the tin had garnered from the stick and shell was most unsettling. "You did set out, you know, to tell me what you imagine the Third Temple will be like."
"If there ever is a Third Temple," said Can o' Beans.
Out on Fifth Avenue, in the pitch of urbanity and the roar of ritz, the

Reverend Buddy Winkler and two kosher-looking gentlemen had stopped at a hot dog cart. As the others watched, the preacher sank his new gold fangs into a frank. "I shouldn't oughtta be eatin' this," he announced, wiping meat juice from his lips with a tissue napkin the size of a playing card. "Had a pound of pig barbecue for supper last night. It was so greasy my arteries took on a life of their own. Woke up this morning and they was already up, reading the newspaper. 'Fuck you,' they said to me. 'We don't need you.' Then they turned to the financial page and commenced checkin' out the latest listing on pork bellies."
The two rabbis regarded him with disbelief. Dirty Sock regarded him, too. The sock thought Buddy looked familiar. Before it could satisfactorily link the face to Colonial Pines or Boomer Petway, however, the preacher and his associates shot off down the chilly avenue, random projectiles in that long vomit of cashmere and fur that the electric muscles of the metropolis—"Stop! Go! Wait! Walk!"— expelled or contracted, in rhythm with their engineered pathology.
Turning his attention to Turn Around Norman, who, like a frozen planet, had just begun his slow diurnal revolution around a tar sun on the sidewalk, Dirty Sock called, "Hey! The ol' boy's at it! Showtime!"
His comrades failed to respond. Can o' Beans was still garrulously speculating about a Third Temple in Jerusalem, and Spoon was too intrigued, or too timid, to cut him/her off.
"Well, now, it's correct that the First and Second Temples were physical twins almost, or duplicates, to speak more precisely, and therefore more sanely, but I can't for the starch of me imagine Jews today, as much as they might cherish tradition, building anything closely resembling the first two. Not with all the advances in modern architecture. Not with wiring and sewer codes. Obviously, they're not going to plate a large complex with silver and gold, not at what precious metals are going for. And think of the kidding they'd get if they erected phallic pillars or covered the doorways with carved fruit. It's a different world we live in, wholly different, different right down to its molecules; even for fundamentalists, it's different.
"In the Second Temple, for example, females were prohibited from entering the inner court. They were restricted to an enclosure within the secondary courtyard, and when they were, excuse the expression, menstruating, they weren't allowed in at all. Can you picture contemporary women sitting still for that? Ho-ho! Of course, there persists to be ultra-orthodox cults and sects in which the wives shave their heads and dress in gunnysacks in order, I suppose,

not to pose any threats to their sexually insecure husbands. The fly in that ointment, as I view it, is that once potential fomicators get used to seeing women that way, pretty soon it won't repulse them anymore. There'll be men who get aroused by bald women. I mean, there could be magazines with shaved-head, gunnysack centerfolds."
"Please, ma'am/sir, you're digressing."
"Oh. Right. I am," conceded Can o' Beans. "Sorry." But before he/she could get back on track, Painted Stick and Conch Shell approached them.
"Good morning," said the container. "Greetings. Are you going to catch a bit of Turn Around Norman? Mr. Sock reports he's spinning like a top."
The ancient relics hadn't come over to enjoy the inimitable Norman, however, nor had they arrived to add to or subtract from the bean can's rehashings and conjectures. Rather, they had come to announce that a decision had been reached, a decision so unexpected that it tore Dirty Sock away from the grate—and sent the dumbfounded little Spoon into a convulsive clatter.
It wasn't complicated. The talismans had decided that one of their group must leave the cathedral, leave the hiding place and venture into the city. Specifically, one of them must link up with Turn Around Norman, must follow him home, observe him and his life-style at close range; offstage, as it were; and report back, if possible, the following day. Obviously, it was a dangerous ploy, but it was the only way the objects might accurately ascertain whether or not the street performer was capable of playing an active role in getting them out of New York and across the sea to Jerusalem.
To minimalize the risk of discovery, the object selected for the mission would of necessity be the smallest among them, the least conspicuous. And that would be, of course, poor Spoon.
~
A week before Thanksgiving, Ellen Cherry had a waitress dream. She had the waitress dream. She had the Nightmare of the Mixed-Up Orders. In that notorious dream, the waitress (in this case, Ellen Cherry) delivers the blood sausages to a table of Buddhists and serves the vampire party the garlic soup.
She awoke with beads of sweat the size of popcorn above her upper lip and doming her nipples. And she didn't feel a whole lot better after turning on the

lamp because she knew that this dream was standing with one leg in reality. In the week since her conversation, her confrontation, with Boomer, she had been twisting in a cyclone of introspection. She'd gone from hurt to hope
and back again; she'd endured pang, then numbness, and, finally, self- examination. She'd gone through her soul like a street thief going through a drunk's pockets. And what she had found, along with enough emotional loose change to feed every vending machine in the Institute of Pop Psychology, was a snapshot of herself taken before she had declared herself an artist. The picture was so old and faded and crinkled that she couldn't tell what she looked like in it.
Maybe Boomer's right, she thought. Right not only about me not really loving him—God knows I've never been willing to bet the farm on the steadfastness of my devotion—but right also about me being so lost in my identity as an artist that I couldn't find my heart with a map and a flashlight. Certainly, he's right about me being married to art, I've never denied that, but what I've got to consider, for the first time in my life, is whether maybe it isn't a bad marriage. Whether I didn't marry art when I was so young that 1 missed out on a lot of other things, things that might have taken me places and shown me stuff and made me whole and happy in ways I can't even guess. If I had waited, maybe I would've ended up just dating art instead of marrying it, or maybe 1 would have had no truck with art at all.
When she had forsaken painting the previous year, it was because she was disillusioned with the New York art world and devastated by Boomer's conquest of it. It had been a negative reaction. Now she thought she would like to attempt a positive withdrawal. She decided to see what it would feel like not to merely give up art but to give up being an artist. To honestly, completely give it up. To be something else for a change. And since, for the time being, there was only one other thing she was qualified to be, she wrote "I am a waitress" five hundred times on the blackboard of her consciousness. Not "I am an artist/waitress" or "I am an artist temporarily working as a waitress," but "I am a waitress."
Perhaps after Thanksgiving, after he had returned from Jerusalem, she would try out her new identity on Boomer. Tomorrow, she'd disclose it to Spike and Mr. Hadee. That night, however, she set Popeye's spinach down in front of Wimpy, and, tossing and moaning, dreamed away any chance of a tip.
To tone her waitress muscles—the extensor hallucis, the tendo calcaneus, the tibialis anterior—Ellen Cherry walked to work the next morning. Along the frosty trek downtown, her nose parting lace curtain after lace curtain of her own

exhalations, she passed countless kiosks and newsstands, each, it seemed, festooned with the same inky banners announcing further violence in Israel. In cries or whispers, depending upon their style, the public journals told of curfews and roadblocks, flaming tires and bulldozed kitchens, bridal veils of tear gas and sweaters of blood; told of leaders with tongues of stale lightning, cradles filled with stones, and young girls who danced with live ammunition when they should have been dancing with their fathers (too young were they to dance with boys); told of the old primate grab-and-hold—the berserk baboon dance that anthropologists call "territorial imperative" and politicians call "national interest"; told of the gash that four thousand years had not sewn shut, the lunatic legacy of Isaac and Ishmael.
Ellen Cherry's shift, the one she hoped would be her last as maître d', ended at three o'clock, but she waited around for Spike and Abu, who generally returned from tennis at quarter past four. She intended to ask them for a demotion. It was silly, in the first place, to have a day captain on duty in a restaurant whose lunch crowd would fit comfortably into a hermit's rec room. As well-to-do as Spike and Abu might be, they couldn't continue to lose money indefinitely. If they agreed to let her wait tables, they would save her salary plus the wages of the waitpersons whom she'd replace. The I & I's staff consisted mostly of earnest but errant young liberals killing time until they could be readmitted to law schools, and she was confident that she could do the work of two of them. Possibly three. For a lunch crowd of a dozen, what was there to do?
When her employers did arrive, Spike's feline eyes searching the room at shoe-level, Abu's nose flaming more red than usual (whether from the cold or the tennis, she could not tell), it was obvious by their manner that they, too, had tasted the latest toxic headlines from Israel.
Normally, the owners refrained from overt political discussion inside the I & I. Their running commentary on the Holy City was more in the order of a paean to its loveliness, its passion, its mysterious hold on the hearts of men. Or bemused puzzling over such questions as, why, always, in the hills of Jerusalem did the rocks look like sheep and the sheep like rocks? Today, however, the harsh pepper that sifted from the media's grinders was stinging their throats and inciting them to speak out in strained voices.
"The suffering of the Jews, everyone knows already," said Spike. He, Abu, and Ellen Cherry were sitting in the empty bar, staring at empty glasses, as if expecting them to fill spontaneously. For the moment, not one of them was sufficiently motivated to stand up and play bartender. "Much more on the subject

of our persecution we don't need. You don't have the Jews on your conscience today already, you're not going to have them next Tuesday. What needs to be said is that we're dishing it out as well as taking it."
"Ah, but there is no comparison," Abu objected. "The Israeli army uses excessive force in quelling protests on the West Bank, true enough, and sometimes sadistic and cruel force, but even though it is racially motivated, and directed against my cousins, I must regard it an insignificant trifle compared to the Holocaust—"
"Hold on, my friend," said Spike. "For one minute, hold on. Holocaust? We Jews perpetrated our own holocaust, I'm telling you.
When? Who against? Over three thousand years ago against the Canaanites, that's when and who. How is the Land of Canaan turning suddenly into the Land of Israel? By what sale, what deal, eh; what magic trick? By a holocaust. The Hebrews escaping from Egypt invaded Canaan and killed everybody, the whole country, old men, women, children, little babies what were in arms. A million, we butchered. Look it up. In history, maybe the first recorded act of genocide. The only Canaanites left alive were a few what were good for slave labor."
"Wow!" said Ellen Cherry. "That's pretty heavy. But that was a very long time ago. And, anyway, weren't the Jews just taking back their homeland; you know, fighting to recover their promised land from these Canaanites?"
"Ha! So who is telling you this? The ghost of Moses, maybe? A homeland the Hebrews have never had. We're nomads, already. Our tribes shlepped through this Canaan, lived there among its inhabitants for a while. Then, most of them moved on into Egypt. So, a long time passed, and then the Hebrews were slaves of the pharaoh, too bad for us, and this guy Moses told them, 'Hey, we're getting out of this mess, we're going to escape.' And the Jews said, 'Okay, but where's it to that we're escaping, already?' 'To Canaan,' Moses said. 'Canaan is our rightful home in case you've forgotten it. God spoke to Abraham personally and said, "I promise you the Land of Canaan. You are my number one people what I've chosen, and Canaan is the place I've set aside for you, for your own forever."' Good. Only nobody read the fine print, which said that to move into our new home, we had to slaughter hundreds of thousands of human beings what were living there at the time."
"You're not exaggerating, Mr. Cohen? Wasn't Canaan kind of a wilderness area that was open for settlement?"
"Hoo boy! You young people today, you're knowing nothing very much.

An advanced civilization, we're talking about here. Already two thousand years old when the Hebrews invaded it. A lot of our culture comes from Canaan. You believe, darlink, that God told Moses go invade an advanced civilization, pilfer its territory, and kill all its people? Suppose in Westchester you had a nice house, and I stayed there the weekend as your guest, and then years pass and one day I come back and say, 'God promised me your house.' You would believe such a cockamamie story? No, you would not. So, okay, I murder you and your kids and your grandmother what's in a wheelchair and your cat and your dog and your three goldfishes. And I say to the neighbors, 'It's my house now, don't be peeing on my lawn.' Hoo boy!"
"I guess we got America the same way," ventured Ellen Cherry. "From the Indians."
Spike ran his index finger, stubby and liver spotted, along the rim of his dry glass. "Okay, yes," he said, "but at least John Wayne never said that God promised it to him. He honestly stole it."
He paused. "I can tell you something?" He paused again, and Ellen Cherry could detect tearwater magnifying the green gooseberries of his eyes. "I can tell you something? Why I changed my birth name? Abu knows this, but no other body. I quote to you from the Old Testament. Joshua 'carried off all the livestock of these cities,' meaning the cities of Canaan, 'but all the people he put to the sword, not sparing anyone who breathed.' Joshua 'plundered,' Joshua 'burned,' Joshua 'massacred,' Joshua 'wiped them out,' Joshua 'put to death,' Joshua 'turned his forces,' 'all were taken by storm . . . annihilated without mercy and utterly destroyed,' Joshua 'subdued,' Joshua 'slew,' Joshua 'left no survivors.' In your Christian Bible you will find this nice story of this nice guy Joshua. You think I could go on living when I wear the name of such a man?"
Ellen Cherry was both touched and embarrassed. She reached out and patted the cuff of his canary-and-catsup plaid sport coat.
Abu came on line. "Aside from the Joshua business, my friend, which I think you are ridiculous to take personally, I can appreciate what you are saying. You are wondering if in the Middle East it wasn't the Jews who started the bloody ball rolling. Maybe, maybe not. And you are asking, where does the Israeli get the chutzpah to be so self-righteously possessive about territory his ancestors acquired in such barbaric fashion? Fair enough. For that matter, the West Bank, itself, was taken by force in fairly recent times. But, Spike, I wish to point out to you yet again that these so-called Palestinians who contest the Jews for this territory have little or no legitimate title to it."

"They don't?" asked Ellen Cherry. The question slipped out before she could harness it. She bit her tongue, too late, and thought, rugs.
"No," said Abu. "They are not descended from the Canaanites. Nor from the Phoenicians, who were the only Canaanite people to survive Joshua's rampage. What's more, the disputed territory has not been their home since time immemorial, as they contend. Very few of them have lived in the area for more than fifty years."
"Rugs."
"It is true. Jews did not displace Arabs in Palestine. Quite the reverse. Most of the Arabs there have foreign roots. They migrated and immigrated into areas settled by Jews in pre-Israel Palestine. In the nineteen-forties. I said 'migrated and immigrated,' but what really happened is that they were trucked in from all over the Arab world by the British. The Brits resettled them there in a land that was new to them."
"Beautiful rugs."
"With American compliance, I am sure, the British actively imported Arabs in great numbers when it became obvious that the UN was going to establish the state of Israel once World War Two was over. So, I am always reminding Spike that no matter how brutally and unfairly they are being treated, the Palestinians have even less claim to the territory than the Jews.
"But you may be wondering," Abu went on, "why the British, with American compliance, I am sure, bothered to resettle foreign Arabs in Palestine."
"Hand-tied, vegetable-dyed rugs."
"It was a deliberate trick to lock the Jews in a pressure cooker and keep them there. To place them in such a permanently volatile situation that it would severely restrict any financial or cultural influence they could exert on the rest of the world. It was a huge, cynical deception. Spike understandably cannot face up to this, but to my mind, if Hitler's Holocaust was the greatest anti-Semitic act in history, the creation of the state of Israel was the second greatest. A monstrous Anglo-American trap."
In Ellen Cherry's mind, flying carpets of exquisite weaves were buzzing the control towers of various airports. When eventually it dawned on her that both of her employers had fallen silent, she arose and filled their glasses, Spike's with rum and Coke, Abu's with tea.
"You are having nothing, darlink?" asked Spike.
It was then that she entered her plea for demotion, assuring them that they would not only save money but would also acquire the services of a waitress

totally absorbed in and dedicated to her profession.
"But, my dear, you are an artist," said Abu.
"Patience. A nice gallery for you I'm getting," said Spike.
When she persisted, they asked if they might discuss the matter privately.
She consented to take a walk and return for their decision in an hour.
As she was leaving the restaurant, carrying a doggie bag of leftover shish
tawook, she overheard Abu ask, "Why do you suppose she kept mumbling about rugs?"
In her last Seattle apartment, the landlord had provided Ellen Cherry with a Coldspot stove and a Hotpoint refrigerator. Can o' Beans, from his/her perch in the kitchen cupboard, was both amused and dismayed by the titular contradiction, by the imprecise language. As for Ellen Cherry, she said once to Boomer, over the phone, "I've got a cold spot and a hot point."
"You and every other woman I've tangled with," said Boomer.
Ellen Cherry recalled that exchange as she walked up Forty-ninth Street. She had intended to stroll along the East River, but the breeze was too fresh, and besides, there was a demonstration in progress in front of the UN Headquarters building. Arab-Americans, joined by a surprising number of Jews, were protesting the viciousness with which Israel was maintaining authority in its occupied territories. So, she had elected to make a quick jaunt up to Fifth Avenue to catch the last few increments of Turn Around Norman's protracted swivel. As she half-jogged along the familiar route, doggie bag swinging in the chill, she was thinking that never in her twenty-five years had her cold spot been colder or her hot point hotter.
When, passing the Mel Davis Dog Boutique, she noticed a cardboard roast turkey on its door glass (evidently, Thanksgiving was for poodles, too), she was not amazed to find herself growing simultaneously more icy and more ablaze.
Neither extreme of her psychological climate was visible to the objects in the cellar. In fact, they barely registered her presence on the cathedral steps. On that day, at that moment, their attention elsewhere was fixed.
"Would that I could go in your place, Miss Spoon," Can o' Beans said consolingly.
"Would that I couldn't," said Dirty Sock. "But, hey, sugar, you'll do okay. You're too little to scoop shit and too big to scoop cocaine. Nobody in New York'll wanna fuss with you. Just go on out there and win one for the Gipper.

Make the world safe for democracy. Remember the Alamo. Damn the torpedoes. Yours is not to question why, yours is but to do or ..."
Painted Stick barked something in Phoenician that the sock couldn't possibly translate, but it got the drift and shut up.
Spoon was already mute. She hadn't uttered a sound in hours. She just stood there by the grate, looking as glazed as if she'd spent all day in a plate of Patsy's jellied chicken salad.
The plan was relatively simple. As the sun sank, as St. Patrick's umbra turned a half-block of Fifth Avenue into a coalfield, immediately before Turn Around Norman, to zero applause, brought his geologic pivot to a screechless halt, Spoon was to slip through the grate (parting, like veils, the candy wrappers and wadded-up Scientology leaflets that the wind pressed against its bars), slither as quietly and quickly as possible along the five yards of sidewalk between grate and Norman, and dive into the performer's donation box right before he bent to snatch it up.
As in most things, it was the timing that mattered.
Like Ellen Cherry, the objects had become so familiar with Norman's routine that they could predict with exactitude the moment when he would close the show and take off with the receipts. Now, as his doll-baby lashes commenced to flutter like those of a windup Jezebel; as his screw-top brow relaxed, assuming some of the placidity of cork; as his lips unpuckered and his violently blue orbs shifted focus, Painted Stick gave Spoon a nudge, Conch Shell gave her a blessing, and clink tink, she was suddenly through the grid and shooting down the sidewalk like a stubby silver arrow released from a toy bow.
"Bon voyage," whispered Can o' Beans.
"See ya later, alligator," called Dirty Sock.
Spoon didn't hear them. More terrified than she had been in her life, she
heard only the clink tink dink of her body against cement, and the noise was so exaggerated by fear and excitement that she imagined that it could be heard above the rush-hour parrot-thunder of midtown traffic. "Oh, dear! O Blessed Mother, Mary of God!"
Clink tink. There were only two more yards to go, but she felt footfalls so close behind her that she was certain she was about to be stepped on. She glanced behind her—just for a second—but in so doing she angled inches off course and sideswiped the rise of the first step of the cathedral, which sent her flying out of control.
"What's that thing!" she heard (or thought she heard) a human squeal. A

shadow fell over her (though she was already in shadow), and she could sense (or believed she could sense) a rough, inquisitive hand reaching to yank her from the pavement.
In full panic now, unable to reason or breathe, she took a desperate flying leap into the nearest enclosure, which happened to be the partially open doggie bag that was at Ellen Cherry's feet.
And as Turn Around Norman gathered up his meager earnings and melted into the crowd, Spoon lay in darkness, next to a foil-wrapped serving of shish tawook, and shook so hard that a passerby might have surmised the bag to be full of mice.
It was after six now, and the zillions of tiny particles that comprised Manhattan's atmosphere had slipped out of their loud sport clothes and donned tuxedos. As she returned to Isaac & Ishmael's, hopeful for demotion, Ellen Cherry walked inside a bag of night nearly as black as the one in which Spoon trembled. Only the discreet neon of the sushi bars or the flashing headlights of taxicabs clipped random bow ties of brightness and color to the formal collars of evening's molecules. Spoon had calmed down enough to comprehend her general whereabouts, and although still rather terrified, she was comforted by the realization that it was to Ellen Cherry Charles and not some stranger that her fate was wed.
Back at St. Patrick's, Dirty Sock was groaning. "She blew it. Oh, man, she flat out blew it. I knowed I shoulda done the job myself."
Can o' Beans, on the other hand, was unperturbed. He/she explained to the stick and the shell that Spoon, in her panic, may have made a fortuitous choice. "As far as I'm concerned," he/she said, "the little dear's better off with Miss Charles than with Turn Around Norman. Just because our mysterious Mr. Norman has discovered the welding defect in humanity's ironclad notion of progress doesn't mean he's ready to actively participate in the schemes of the inanimate. True, Miss Charles may drop dead at the prospect herself, but unless she's changed, we do know that she's compassionate and eccentric—an excellent combination in a human being; we know that she kept me for four years without opening me up; we know she was fond of Miss Spoon and of your beloved Jezebel; and I feel we may be able to squeeze some valuable assistance from her without directly revealing ourselves to her. You know what I mean? A modicum of subtle manipulation. Harmless, of course."
Conch Shell nodded, while Painted Stick stared off into space, perhaps

reminiscing about a time when the gulf between animate and inanimate was not quite so wide.
"Anyhow," the bean can continued, "Miss Charles shows up here in front of the cathedral almost as regularly as Mr. Turn Around. If Spoon uses her wits and follows your instructions, she'll be back with us tomorrow or the day after. And with any luck, we'll be better informed about our chances for Jerusalem."
Alas, Can o' Beans would have been less optimistic, Spoon less brave, were either of them privy to Ellen Cherry's private thoughts. As she trod back down East Forty-ninth Street, wagging the doggie bag in the frigid ebony air (the added weight of the dessert spoon going unnoticed), Ellen Cherry was deciding that since she was forsaking her personal artisthood, she must also forsake art over all. In general. Period. Otherwise, it would be akin to divorcing a man about whom she still cared, then hanging around to watch how he got along with his new wife. Could she not be a participant, she damn sure wasn't going to be a spectator.
But if her vow of rejection would end her dilemma about whether or not to attend Boomer's show (the exhibition had her both itching with curiosity and recoiling with distaste), it would likewise end her cultural pilgrimages to Fifth Avenue, her repetitive homages to "the only real artist in New York." By the time that she reached the Mel Davis Dog Boutique, its turkey cutout now a nostalgic silhouette in the night, she promised herself that she had been to see Turn Around Norman for the very last time.
Clearly, Ellen Cherry was going to miss the street performer. What was less clear was why.
Earlier, she had told herself that she was drawn to him for the same reason that Spike Cohen was drawn to Jerusalem: Turn Around Norman was not about money.
But was it entirely accurate to claim he was not about money? And if so, what was the big appeal of that?
Turn Around Norman didn't turn around for free. Nearly, but not quite. One could watch him for hours, weeks, and not pay a penny. On the other hand, his donation box—a cardboard container in which a child's jigsaw puzzle had once been packaged—was invariably in plain view, and there existed no overt prohibition against monetary contributions of Rockefellerian scope. Still, he was fortunate if he collected three bucks a day. Thus, while he seemed willing, even mildly eager, to accept a cash offering as an expression of appreciation for his

work, his art, his turning around slowly on the street, he obviously had motives beyond the financial. Or else he was shooting without film in his camera.
To Ellen Cherry's mind, the fact that Turn Around Norman was dedicated to a rigorously controlled minimal act to the extent that he performed it relentlessly, day after day (except Wednesday afternoons), in sweet or murderous weather, before oblivious and occasionally abusive audiences, regardless of negligible material reward, all of that signified that he believed in something. No doubt, Jerusalem believed in something, as well. She didn't know what. For that matter, she had only a hunch about Norman's beliefs. Apparently, he believed in turning around.
"The trouble with these new New York artists," she had once complained to Boomer, "aside from the fact that they're busy stealing from the dead and each other—if that's not redundant—is that they're only in it for fame and fortune, they don't believe in anything."
"Yes, they do," argued Boomer. "They believe in fame and fortune."
So. Were there qualitative differences in believing in turning around slowly, very slowly, on the street and believing in fame and fortune? Was an obsession with money a slimy, shameful, rodent-lipped thing compared to an obsession with art?
Being two months behind on her rent at the Ansonia and facing a self- imposed reduction in wages, Ellen Cherry was in the uncomfortable position of having to consider a settlement from Boomer, of having to ask to be cut in on the earnings from his show at the Sommervell Gallery, a show she had just made up her mind to boycott. In order to maintain her current standard of living, she would have to be subsidized by sales of artworks created by a man who she knew didn't believe in anything, which is to say, who believed neither in his work nor hers. She had never objected to trading paintings for dollars. In fact, there was a time when she, Ellen Cherry, had maintained a salivary hankering for fortune and fame. It was not so long ago. But something had changed. . . .
Observing it at close range, artistic success, in socioeconomic terms, proved more of a demon than she had bargained for. Gradually, she found herself repulsed by the realization that her lifelong eye game (her private amusement and personal salvation) could be reduced to a commodity, like soda pop, jeans, TV Christianity, or Preparation H. The relationship between art and money was incomprehensible to her. It was as complicated as the Middle East, and not a rug in sight.
Money itself was incomprehensible. Almost from its inception, it had

perplexed and befuddled those in whose lives it had appeared, and although modern people were used to it, although they dealt with it on a daily, if not hourly basis, and although it worked in their every thought the way that yeast worked in bread, they were no closer to understanding it than they had been at the beginning. Preoccupied with it, dominated—and ultimately bewildered—by it, introspective men and women finally had to confess that it clouded their vision of the world like . . . yes, you guessed it, like a veil.
When the fifth veil falls, and with it the illusion of financial worth, individuals might recognize themselves again, might find themselves standing, as if naked, among ancient values in a long-lost landscape.
Meanwhile, it can be stated with some validity that for all of the clamorings and phobias that it generates, money barely exists. An abstraction, a symbol, an act of faith, an IOU backed only by a banker's word, money is first and foremost a substitute. The funny part is that it's a substitute for things that often do not exist.
Within the framework of its temporal unfolding, however, turning around on the street is real.
Both money and art, powdered as they are with the romance and poetry of the age, are magic. Rather, money is magic, art is magik. Money is stagecraft, sleight of hand, a bag of clever tricks. Art is a plexus of forces and influences that act upon the senses by means of practical yet permanently inexplicable secret links. Admittedly, the line between the two can be as thin as a dime. What's more, the magicians of capitalism strengthen their hold on their audience through the manipulation of artistic images.
Long before the veil of commerce drooped down over the eyes of art, it had impaired the sight of religion. Ancient temples, pagan or otherwise, almost always doubled as treasuries and mints. The Temple of Jerusalem was no exception. The First Temple and both versions of the Second had served as financial centers for the state of Judah/Judea. Ellen Cherry wasn't aware of that. The Reverend Buddy Winkler probably was, but the light in which Buddy had seriously examined religion's ties with wealth was understandably dim. Can o' Beans was definitely aware of it, yet in his/her speculations on what the Third Temple might resemble, he/she had avoided any conjecture on if and how it might interface with the Bank of Israel. Even the fearless intellect of the bean tin found the subject forbidding.
What is plain is that neither money nor the love of it is the root of all evil.

Evil's roots run deeper than that. Anyway, money is not a root. Money is a leaf. Trillions of leaves, actually; dense, bushy, dollar-green, obscuring the stars of reality with their false canopy. Who says that money doesn't grow on trees?
The introduction of money, with its seductive, if largely ambiguous promises, added a fresh measure of zip to the sport of life, but the zip turned to zap when the players, stupefied by ever-shifting intangibles, began to confuse the markers with the game.
So, even for those of us who can't personally witness Salome's dance, the fifth veil surely will fall. It will fall at the moment of our death. As we lie there, helpless, beyond distraction, electricity stealing out of our brains like a con man stealing out of a sucker's neighborhood, it will occur to many of us that everything we ever did, we did for money. And at that instant, right before the stars blink off, we will, according to what else we may have learned in life, burn with an unendurable regret—or have us a good silent laugh at our own expense.
~
This is the room of the wolfmother wallpaper. The room where the lobster tore the pillowcase, mistaking it for. . . . Whoops! Hold on. Speaking of mistakes, this is actually a far cry from the boudoir the wolfmother papered. This is not a room at all. This happens to be the intersection of East Forty-ninth Street and United Nations Plaza, where an abrupt, unexpected flurry of snow, propelled by a gust from the river, whipped Ellen Cherry's chapped face, driving all thoughts of money and art from her cerebrum, causing ice crystals to collect in the badly sprung honeycomb of her hair, and momentarily precipitating a hallucination of crustaceans and bed sheets, a flashback, perhaps, to a room in which her neurons may have strayed off course a forgotten dream ago.
Shaking off the image, the snow, the gust, the dip in temperature, she rounded the corner onto UN Plaza, only to witness in front of the I & I yet another scene that might have spun from a dream. There was a murmuring crowd. A hysteria of flashing red lights. A harsh arrival of men costumed for emergency.
At first, Ellen Cherry surmised it to be a spillover from the earlier demonstration at the UN building down the street, but as she drew nearer, she saw that the crowd was gathered passively about two lone men lying on the sidewalk in separate echo circles of blood. One of the men, who was being

covered with a sheet, was Sylvester, a security guard in the restaurant's employ. The other, attended by medics, was Spike Cohen.
Ellen Cherry dropped the doggie bag on the pavement (within minutes, the bag—Spoon and all—was cordoned off by police, and the NYPD bomb squad was on its way to investigate it). She pushed her way to Spike and fell on her knees at his side. Blood was spurting from his head like rotgut from a wineskin. His eyes were wide, and he gasped as if trying to swallow all the air in the world.
Her stalled heart began to thump again when she realized that he was alive. But at that same hopeful moment, a voice of premonition rang in her ears. She didn't know from where it came or whose voice it was. It startled her to the extent that she stood up halfway and looked around. The voice said, "Boomer Petway won't be coming home from Jerusalem."
Why not? And what did that have to do with what was going on here? She felt Abu's hand on her shoulder.
She overheard a snatch of song from an unseen boom box:
My heart is a Third World country
And your love is a tourist from Switzerland
She had never heard it before, yet it was eerily familiar. (A day would come when she would recognize it as Raoul Ritz's first recording.)
When she returned her attention to Spike, she fully expected him to be dead. However, the medics had capped the spurt, and there was a kind of weak grin on his face. From his vantage point down on the blood-warmed cement, he could inspect at his leisure every shoe in the crowd.

the sixth veil
~
The cold spell snapped in mid-December. Christmas shoppers went about in their shirt-sleeves. Poinsettias could have grown along Fifth Avenue, the days were so balmy and grand. The waxing moon was a winter moon, typically high and pasty, but the nights in which it swelled were as mild as baby oil. By Christmas Eve, the moon was full. It rolled in the sky like a spook wheel, a hoop of grainy ghost cheese. Despite the fact that it was the brighter of the two, the Christmas star kept its distance from that moon.
Midnight mass at St. Patrick's drew a capacity crowd. The archbishop spoke in a long-dead language about a long-dead carpenter. Nevertheless, an air of solemn gaiety prevailed. Down in the sub-basement, the choir barely audible to them, the inanimates lounged in the moonlight that streamed through the grate.
"It's a crying shame little Spoonzie ain't here," said Dirty Sock. "She'd enjoy the puddin' outta these carols and hymns."
"Indeed, she would," Can o' Beans agreed. "Indeed, she would. Personally, I prefer carols to rap tunes, but not by a wide margin. The carol radiates hope, the rap radiates aggression, but both are rooted in humanity's overwhelming feeling of helplessness."
"Stow it, perfesser. Give us a friggin' break. It's Christmas Eve!"
"And what might that occasion have to do with you, my polyester pal?"
In an attempt to head off a tiff, Conch Shell treated the can and the sock to
a description of the winter festivals that had been held at that time of year on Jerusalem's Temple Mount. Evidently, the service under way upstairs was rather pale in comparison, although even Painted Stick, taking time out from his contemplation of that point where the beam of the moon intersected light from the star, had to admit that the pipe organ provided musical possibilities unimagined by drum or tambourine.
"Music has changed," said Painted Stick. "But the star in the East is the same."
Outside, in the newspaper delivery trucks that were making their early

rounds, the headlines read: "Troops Ring Bethlehem as Tense Pilgrims Flock." And in the men's toilet at Isaac & Ishmael's restaurant, over on United
Nations Plaza, Verlin Charles stared through a tiny window at the Christmas star as he stood with his hand on his fly.
Verlin and Patsy had expected Ellen Cherry home for Thanksgiving, but she stood them up. At the last minute, she realized that she couldn't face the prospect of looking down the long oak table at a roast turkey, what with Boomer not yet back from Jerusalem. Her parents were disappointed but accepted her promise to spend Christmas in Colonial Pines. When Boomer's return was further delayed, she had backed out on Christmas as well.
"Fine and dandy," said Patsy. "If she won't come to us, we'll go to her."
"Hold your horses, woman," said Verlin. "Are you talkin' New York City? Christmas? Us?"
"All of the above. It'll be family. And it'll be romantic."
"It'll be a blessed nightmare. Of all the places to have Christmas ..." "Bud'll be there."
"I don't care."
"And I'll be there."
Verlin sputtered. He could tell that she was serious. Dad blast it! She had
him over a barrel. He could celebrate the holiday alone— alone!—in Colonial Pines, or celebrate it with conniving wife and errant daughter in a hellish heathen cesspool where their lives wouldn't be worth two cents, not even on Jesus' birthday. And no telling how much postseason football he'd miss.
Now, on Christmas Eve, his bladder falling all over itself in its eagerness to expel the glass of Jewish wine that he had consumed just to be polite, Verlin stood at the urinal in a restaurant that could be blown sky-high at any second, afraid to pull the zipper and expose his tremulous member to the diseases that common sense told him would be lying in wait, grinning like skulls, smirking like queers, in a squalid place such as this.
When he glimpsed the star through the dirty little window above his head, he took momentary heart. Reminding himself that the love and protection of the Christ Child was everywhere, even in this sitting target on this terrible night, he grabbed hold of Baby Jesus' coattails and rode them to a calmer state of mind. Standing as far back from the urinal as the trajectory of his stream would allow, he went cautiously about his business, convinced that within the hour the worst Christmas Eve of his life would be over and he and Patsy would be nestled all

snug in their bed in the comparative safety of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
No sense acting sissy about this, he thought. He sighed and permitted his
sphincter to uncoil. At that instant, however, the star disappeared, obscured by a strange face pressed suddenly against the windowpane, a dark Semitic face that glowered maliciously beneath a tattered white headdress. Verlin stepped backward, spraying a bamboo wall with his water. "Terrorist!" he screamed, and then fainted dead away.
Nobody heard Verlin's cry. Roland Abu Hadee and his wife, Nabila, were in the kitchen, the one washing dinner dishes, the other preparing coffee and dessert. At a dining room table, Patsy and Ellen Cherry were lost in conversation, this being their first opportunity to speak in private. Their day had been given over to shopping, Verlin and his credit cards in tow, and after baths and naps in their respective quarters, the long dinner party had begun.
The dinner celebration had more excuses than Buddy Winkler had boils. For openers, Christmas and Hanukkah were upon the land. Then, there was the occasion of it being Verlin and Patsy's first visit to New York. Next, there was the recently received letter from the chief of police that granted the I & I the right to reopen for business; it had been ordered closed following the drive-by shootings in November. Last but not least, Spike Cohen had been released from the hospital on the previous day. It was expected, in fact, that Spike would j oin them at some point during dinner. He had been scheduled to spend the early half of the evening at a Hanukkah observance with his son, then catch a taxi to the I & I. However, midnight had arrived, and Spike had not. The consensus was that the Hanukkah fete must have worn him out and he'd been put to bed. They hoped he hadn't hurt himself.
Spike's shooting, in particular, and violence, in general, had dominated dinner conversation—Verlin was full of paranoid questions, to which Abu supplied philosophical replies—but now that mother and daughter were alone, the subject shifted quickly to romance.
"Okay," said Ellen Cherry, "this is Boomer's first letter." She removed a page or two of childish pencil scrawls from a flimsy air-mail envelope. "He's talking mostly about Jerusalem. He says here, 'It's a city built upon cities, with one yet to come, the final one, as Buddy claims, the New Jerusalem. Jerusalem throws you from one culture into another and back again. You've got throbbing cultures bumping into each other on every corner. Israel has got the best people and the worst people in the world. Tough cowboy lunatics toting Uzis, wall-to-

wall fanatics of many persuasions. Folks so sweet and compassionate they make you want to cry, and folks that's got that mean streak that seems to always run through those with a narrow focus.'
"He goes on to say, 'At first glance, you'd swear folks here are living very close to the earth, which I like, but somehow they aren't really attached to the earth, even when they work it. In their minds and hearts, they're up in the sky somewheres. Buddy claims that one day soon Jerusalem is going to rise into the heavens. If you ask me, the whole damn city lives up in the clouds already.'
"Let's see. . . . Well, he goes on like that for a while. Then he talks about how good the museum project is going. And right here he throws me a crumb about how much he's looking forward to us getting together. Although now, he says, it might not be until after Thanksgiving. That's it. That's the first letter." Ellen Cherry looked to her mother for a reaction, but Patsy just smiled and shrugged.
"All right, then. This is the next one." She opened a second envelope. "Mama, wouldn't you like another quick glass of wine? Daddy won't know."
"Lord, no, honey. I'm not used to alcohol. It'd make me plumb silly."
"Suit yourself. Anyway, this one begins, 'Dear Sugar Booger.' Have you ever? I mean, who else but Boomer Petway? 'Dear Sugar Booger. The craziness of this place has put me under a spell. At times it fascinates me, and at times it makes me want to puke. One minute you're feeling inspired and pure and the next you're feeling like you laid down in shit. And it's all because Jerusalem is so all-fired holy. Looks to me like living in a sacred town can make folks extra ugly and hateful just as easy as making them extra nice. Some of the religious types here are downright scary. There's something scary about Jerusalem, on the whole, as beautiful as it is, and you remember how I react to things that scare me. I have to deal with them.'
"Yeah, well, I'll comment on that later. I'm going to skip some stuff here because Daddy'll be back in a second, and besides, Boomer's handwriting is a trial. He goes on to say that he met an Israeli sculptor whose work is included in the museum show, the same show that Boomer's in, and that this sculptor lives on a kibbutz right outside Jerusalem, a kind of kibbutz for artists, where there's a foundry and a metal fabrication shop, and that they're really hurting for an expert welder, because the one they had got called back into the army. Naturally, ol' Boomer volunteered to lend a hand."
"Well, that was right charitable of him."
"Maybe. In case you didn't notice, he neglected to mention whether his

sculptor friend was male or female." "Oh, honey!"
"Okay, so I'm being silly. But listen to this. 'Helping out on the kibbutz'— he spells it k-e-b-o-o-t-s—'will delay my getting back to New York for a month or two, but it was fixing to get delayed anyhow. Buddy wired me a considerable amount of money a couple of days ago and asked me to do him a favor and stay on in Jerusalem for a bit as he had a secret mission he wanted to assign me to.' "
Ellen Cherry slammed down the letter on her bamboo place mat. "Now what do you suppose that's all about?"
"I wouldn't have a notion in this world," Patsy said. "Bud's always jawing about how him and his Jews are gonna get Armageddon rolling, but, Lord, I don't know. I'll certainly ask him when we see him tomorrow."
"Uncle Buddy is manipulating Boomer. He knows just how to do it. 'Secret mission'! Boomer's a sucker for that 'secret mission' baloney."
"Yes, he likes his spy stories."
"Anyhow, mama, what do you think? He indicates he wants to stay and 'deal' with Jerusalem because he has to come to terms with the things in life that frighten him; which, I admit, are precious few. But he's deceiving himself if that's his reason, because, I assure you, coming back to New York and dealing with me and Ultima Sommervell and his new big art career is what he's really afraid of. It's scaring his britches off."
With her Miami-pink nails—Verlin had fumed and called her "Jezebel" when she painted them prior to dinner—Patsy scratched at the yellow stains that tahíní had left on the tablecloth. "If you ask me, and you did ask me, please remember, Boomer's problem is mainly this: he loves you but he doesn't like you. He likes that Ultima woman but he doesn't love her. And he feels like a fake as an artist. The boy's so blessed confused he probably fits right in in the Middle East."
"All artists feel like imposters, except maybe the ones who really are. Even I used to, sometimes. Nowadays, I feel like I'm posing as a waitress, which is less of an offense. Anyway . . . mama, do you really think Boomer doesn't like me?"
Before Patsy could respond, the kitchen door was flung violently open, and out rushed Roland Abu Hadee, followed by an agitated man in a white headdress.
"Cherry!" shouted Abu. "Do you know the location of your father? Spike

saw a man collapse on the toilet floor."
"Mr. Cohen?! What?!"
The whole party rushed to the men's room. They found Verlin on his feet
again, although ashen and dazed; his fly open to the four winds, the seven seas, the twelve apostles, and ninety-nine bottles of beer on the wall.
After a protracted explanation, followed by a protracted apology, during which time Nabila let the dondurma melt and the coffee boil down into tractor fuel, what had transpired was perfectly clear.
Spike Cohen, his head heavily bandaged from the most recent surgery he had undergone to repair his gunshot wounds, had come with a special Christmas gift for the I & I. To enhance the surprise, Spike, with the assistance of his son and two of his son's friends, planned to sneak the present in through the kitchen. They had lugged it to the rear courtyard that the I & I shared with the East Indian restaurant next door. Because there were no windows in the kitchen, Spike had had his son boost him up to the toilet window, from whose perspective he hoped he might get a fix on Abu's whereabouts. It was pretty simple really. Hardly worth the lump on Verlin's head or the Pleistocene ooze at the bottom of the coffeepot.
Spike pumped Verlin's hand and handled Patsy's pumps: "Darlink, where have you found such a chic shoe down in Dixieland, already?" Then, he went out to the courtyard and directed his helpers to tote in the surprise. It proved to be a very large, very advanced, very expensive, state-of-the-art television set. Its screen ran six feet on the diagonal, and it operated with a revolutionary new picture tube, rather than a projector, providing the highest possible video resolution. Spike had had it flown in from Tokyo, and there wasn't a TV in New York that could match it.
"Hot damn!" exclaimed Verlin, coming rapidly out of shock. "You could count the individual beads of sweat flying off a blindsided quarterback on this baby. Heck, you might even be able to see Tom Landry's teeth."
It took nearly an hour to hook the TV up, and might have taken longer without Verlin's expertise. The engineer was put in charge of the project, and he responded with enthusiastic efficiency. When it was perfectly balanced and adjusted, they all settled back and watched the last half of It's a Wonderful Life. There wasn't a dry eye in the restaurant.
Although Isaac & Ishmael's dining room had remained virtually vacant throughout the autumn, its bar gradually had begun to attract a small, regular clientele, consisting mostly of bachelors or bored husbands who worked at the

UN Headquarters. They filtered in late at night to sip Maccabee beer and munch Abu's falafel. The shooting had put an end to that, but Spike hoped that the giant TV would bring the fellows back, and others with them. Could he have guessed the extreme to which the TV would eventually affect their lives, albeit indirectly, he might have wept that night for reasons other than Jimmy Stewart's epiphany.
It was well past two in the morning, and one of those yawn epidemics was gathering momentum, when the diners donned their lightweight coats and exchanged their Merry Christmases and good-byes. As he embraced Ellen Cherry, something jostled Abu's memory. "Oh, yes. I almost forgot. Your spoon."
"What?"
"Your spoon. The one that was in your doggie bag. The police left it."
"I don't know what you're talking about, Mr. Hadee. I never had any spoon
in any doggie bag."
"The night of the shootings. Remember? You dropped a bag out front, and
the entire police department ducked for cover. It must have been your own spoon in the bag, it was too fine and too tarnished to be one of ours. In any case, I finally got around to restoring it for you. For shame, Patsy. Did you neglect to introduce your daughter to the virtues of silver polish?"
Abu turned and went to the kitchen. Ellen Cherry looked as blank as a paraplegic's dance card. "I don't have a clue what he's talking about," she said, as she hugged and kissed Spike Cohen. She whispered in Spike's ear, "Your big TV made my daddy's day. Only thing he's seen in New York that hasn't disgusted him."
"Always show respect to your papa," Spike cautioned her. He pinned her with the glint in his emerald eyes. They seemed all the more green now, next to the white bandages. "After New Year's I get for you a nice gallery, little artist lady."
"Waitress," she corrected him. "Little waitress lady."
From the kitchen, Abu fetched a petite and gleaming dessert spoon. Ellen Cherry examined it, her mouth opening wider and wider. Her life flashed before her, and her goose bumps hatched gosling bumps. "How in the world . . . ?" The hair on her head would have stood up if only it could have gotten itself untangled.
For her part, Spoon felt greatly relieved by the reunion. But, then, she was already in a state of bliss as a result of Abu's ministrations. The caring professionalism with which he had soaped and rinsed and polished her, oh dear,

oh goodness, she thought she'd died and gone to heaven.
At the Radio City Music Hall Christmas Extravaganza the next afternoon, Ellen Cherry might just as well have been blindfolded. Oblivious to the prancing Rockettes in their skimpy Santa suits, she was preoccupied with the same thoughts that had kept her awake most of the night.
She could have been mistaken about leaving the spoon in that cave, she supposed, yet, had it remained in her possession, how could it have gone unnoticed for the past twenty months? It could not. Unless Boomer had been concealing it for some demented reason, some kind of lamebrained joke. Boomer was capable of such things, though he plainly wasn't capable of planting the spoon in her doggie bag from his kibbutz near Jerusalem. Had some kind of spooky parapsychological phenomenon occurred? Or was she losing her young mind?
Her parents thought that she was overreacting. They were sure that there was a logical explanation and that it would come to her in time.
"You're making a mountain out of a molehill," said Verlin. "That's what art's done to you."
"Relax, hon," Patsy advised. "Miracles do not occur around secondhand silverware."
After the show, they caught a cab to the Ansonia, where, in Ellen Cherry's apartment, they were to open gifts and share Christmas dinner. During the taxi ride, Patsy was virtually as distracted as her daughter. To nobody in particular, she said, with a sigh, "If I'd of stuck to my dancing, that could've been me up there."
Resisting the urge to question her morals on Christmas Day, Verlin glared at her and shook his head. "You're way too short," he said.
Raoul Ritz opened the door for them, a sprig of mistletoe clipped to his porkpie hat. Ellen Cherry didn't hesitate. She kissed him square on the mouth, going so far as to slide in a length of tongue. The lightning bolt that zigzagged up her thighs must have melted her underpants. She could feel them starting to drip. Without question, she would have invited Raoul to drop by that evening when his shift was through, had not the mystery of the prodigal utensil suddenly interjected itself. She gathered her composure and pushed her parents toward the elevator. She had to find out if the spoon was still there.
"Felices Navidades, Miz Charl," called Raoul, running a guitar-callused, nicotine-brightened finger along his freshly kissed lips. "You hear my song,

man?"
"What song?" Ellen Cherry inquired, but, alas, the elevator door closed on
his reply.
"He's cute," said Patsy.
Verlin glowered.
Ellen Cherry's hand was actually trembling as she pulled open the cabinet
drawer. But there the spoon was, looking as mundane and lifeless as the stainless steel ñatware beside it, although, thanks to Roland Abu Hadee (or so thought Ellen Cherry), generating a sparkle that put the other utensils to shame. Daddy's right, I'm just being dumb, she thought. Nevertheless, she was in the process of removing the spoon and transferring it to the mantel of the no longer functional fireplace when the Reverend Buddy Winkler buzzed from the lobby.
"Let him in quick," said Verlin. "It's time we put some Christ and some football back in this Christmas."
Like an ear of corn with a diamond in its lapel, Buddy looked prosperous, in a seedy sort of way. His blue Armani suit was neither baggy nor wrinkled, but his white shirt was so stiff with starch it could have been used to board up a window, and his tie was badly knotted and two inches too wide. Worse, it was brown. With Day-Glo pheasants on it. Ellen Cherry had seen Buddy on television recently, wearing a tie that was embroidered with the words, "Jesus Is Lord." She was glad, upon reflection, that today he had selected game birds.
The Reverend Buddy Winkler still didn't have a TV ministry of his own. For that matter, nearly a third of the radio stations affiliated with the Southern Baptist Voice of the Sparrow Network had dropped his Sunday morning sermons as he became increasingly militant in his political views, especially in regard to the Middle East. The stations didn't necessarily reject his views, but his graphic descriptions of the horror of the End Days, combined with the power of his vocal saxophone and the obvious delight he took in forecasting carnage, had been spoiling a lot of breakfasts. Nevertheless, his fame had spread. He seemed forever to be turning up as guest minister on some other evangelist's broadcast, and the media had come to count on him for hair-raising sound bites. Thanks largely to Buddy, the Third Temple Platoon had gained some credibility, especially among Christian fundamentalists. Buddy's skill at extracting cash from right-wing goyim earned him the gratitude of ultra-Zionists, who scarcely minded that he spent portions of the contributions on gold teeth and Italian suits.
Intimidated by Patsy, perhaps, Buddy kept a fairly low profile at table that

day. True, his blessing ran on so long the gravy started to clot. And at one point, his saxophone bell muffled by candied yams with marshmallows, he commenced to catalog the various sinful activities of contemporary humanity, leaning heavily on those transgressions involving sex, alcohol, drugs, and socialism. The Lord was sorely vexed, according to Bud. "Well, what does he expect?" said Patsy. "He hasn't made a house call in two thousand years. When the cat's away, the mice will play."
Mostly, however, the feast went smoothly. Ellen Cherry focused on her mother's cooking, although she stole occasional glances at the spoon on the mantelpiece, and, once or twice, closed her eyes and envisioned Raoul. If the end of the world really is right around the corner, she thought, I ought to be having some fun.
After pumpkin pie, mincemeat pie, and fruitcake, everybody pushed away from the table. They didn't push far. What with all the canvases stacked against the walls, there was hardly an excess of space in which four abundantly fed people might mingle.
"Why don't you show us your new pictures, hon?" Patsy requested.
"These are old ones, mama. I told you I haven't painted since back in the fall."
"They're new to us."
Ellen Cherry wavered. "No-ooo. I don't think so."
"Come on, now. We're family, and we're interested in what you do. Verlin,
pry yourself loose from that blessed ball game and appreciate your daughter's talent."
"Oh, mama!"
Buddy stroked his chin. His boils were not quite red enough to actually enhance a Christmas setting. "Yes, doll baby, let's have us a gander at how you're using God's gifts."
Against her better judgment, Ellen Cherry began turning paintings around, careful not to expose any of the full-length Boomer nudes.
"Hmmm," said Verlin.
"My, my," said Buddy.
"Very good, dear," said Patsy.
Privately, each of them was thinking something along the lines of, At least
they're not a jumble and a mishmash like she did before. At least she's got the right colors on things. But why in the world would anybody ...?

The family was unimpressed. And a trifle concerned. But as each fresh larger-than-life rendering of bean can, dining implement, or rumpled sock—Why in the world . . . ?—was revealed, Spoon, upon her mantel perch, could barely refrain from leaping into the room and dancing herself all around.
Verlin locked in again on the flying footballs discernible among the flashes, pops, and flickers of the tiny, tinny, black-and-white portable that, at his urging, Buddy had consented to fetch to the Ansonia. It was a close game, a bowl game, and to watch it on the magnificent screen at the I & I, to watch it unveiled by this spray of electric blue eel spit, might possibly have been worth the risk to life and limb. Were it the Super Bowl, there was no question but that he'd chance it. Christmas is Christmas, Verlin thought, but the Super Bowl is something, by golly, a man can sink his fangs in.
When Patsy began to clear the dishes, Ellen Cherry arose to assist her. She froze in her tracks, however, when the preacher walked up to the canvases still facing the wall and made to turn one of them around.
"No, Uncle Buddy! Don't!"
Too late. He reversed the painting and stepped back a pace or two to regard it. Fortunately, it proved not to be one of those studies of Boomer in which his glorified penis hung like an upside down ice-cream cone (sometimes a scoop of raspberry, sometimes a dip of grape), but, rather, her very last painting, the portrait with the redundancy of tongues.
"My, my," said Buddy. "What have we here? Uh-huh. If this don't broach the Satanic, I'll eat my hat."
"Bud," said Patsy, "you just had dinner."
"Cute remarks ain't gonna get you through Saint Peter's radar, Patsy Charles, and they don't cut ice with me, neither. Instead of tryin' to lighten the air with your smart-ass brand of humor, better you should join me in contemplatin' why your daughter, who looks so much like you, right down to the Jezebel goo on your eyelids, why your daughter has gone and depicted her husband, the man who she's united with in the holy sight of God, as some kinda demon. Yea, as the very Beast!"
"I thought the Beast was a woman," said Ellen Cherry.
"Bud, it's Christmas," said Verlin.
"Oh, let him rant," said Patsy. "He'll give himself a case of heartburn that'll
have him praying for mercy." "Patsy, now ..."

"Besides, I find the subject interesting. Bud, as you surely are aware, it was Mr. Boomer Petway who went off and left my Ellen Cherry."
"Frankly, I'm not surprised."
"And he's over there in Is-ra-el, as you call it. Now, let us put aside, for the moment, the possibility that a woman who's been deserted, deceived—"
"Mama!"
"—and had her poor heart broken, might be inclined to portray the rascal in an unflattering manner. I want to put that aside and ask you a theological question. You said that Ellen Cherry and Boomer were eternally united. Now, I'm wondering, what if ol' Boomer was to get himself killed over there in Is-ra- el? Wouldn't it be permissible, in God's sight and your own, for Ellen Cherry to then take herself another husband?"
"Last thing I'd want," muttered Ellen Cherry.
"Bud?"
Suspicious, Buddy was slow to reply. He thought it might be a trick
question. "I can't see what you're aimin' at, but, yes, it's perfectly righteous for a widow-woman to remarry."
"Well, then, when that widow-woman dies and goes to heaven, who does she bed down with there, hubby number one or hubby number two?"
Verlin, who'd turned from the game to shush Patsy, stopped in mid-shush. By golly, that was an interesting question.
"People do not 'bed down' in heaven," said Buddy, with a slather of contempt.
"No? They don't? Folks don't never get to recline and rest in heaven? An ol' widow-woman is expected to be on her feet twenty-four hours a day?"
"You weren't talkin' 'bout rest."
"I wasn't? What was I talking 'bout, Bud?"
"Patsy, dad blast it!" swore Verlin. "Let him be. Forget that fool picture,
Bud, and watch this drive. Washington's getting ready to score."
"All right," said Patsy. "I'm sorry. I guess that's not the kinda question a
serious theologian would want to waste his brains on. It was silly. I mean, first off, Boomer is not gonna get killed in Jerusalem." She paused. And smiled so sweetly that the resident roaches, already in a state of high excitement due to the aroma of pies and candied yams, peered out from the plumbing to see where such sweetness was coming from. "Unless you get him killed," she said.
"What the hell do you mean?"
"That's what I'd like to know! What I wanna know, what Boomer's little

wife here has every right to know, is what kinda monkey business you fixin' to get that ol' boy involved in over there?"
Buddy tugged at the knot in his tie. He looked around the apartment. All eyes were on him, including his cousin's. Washington would have to cross the goal line without Verlin Charles.
~
This is the room of the wolfmother wallpaper. The room where the giant moth beat its papery scales against the jeweled lampshade. The room where Jezebel beat her kohl-encrusted lashes against the window glass. Where the pinwheel beat her dizzy children for confusing the north wind with Santa Claus.
Few inanimate objects believed in Saint Nick. And who besides they were in a better position to know? Should an old fatso in a red suit free-fall down the chimney in the middle of the night, the family and its pets might sleep through it, but every object in the parlor would a witness be. Certainly, the objects that occupied the cathedral basement hadn't swallowed the Santa story, no matter how often the merchants had told it. They were up and about early on Christmas morning, but not to look for treats or consumer goods. Rather, they were curious to see if Turn Around Norman would report to his station on the holiday.
To their surprise, he did appear. And although Fifth Avenue was deserted, except for the occasional wino or homeless lunatic, he remained there throughout the day, like a hive of hard rubber turning on an axis of bees. Never had the objects seen him turn with greater delicacy, greater intensity. Extending and contracting himself impossibly, like butter that melts and then congeals, like musical butter, a butter pat with harmonica stops, making the trip from skillet to refrigerator and back again several times a second. He stepped out of time, as if time were a pair of pants. He folded time over the back of a chair and paraded around it, trouserless and unashamed, sniffing at the rose that never fades. He turned like a radioactive worm in amber, like a bushel of phosphorescent plankton turning in the colon of a constipated sea serpent.
Had they hands, the objects would have applauded. "That there's good stuff," Dirty Sock proclaimed, and the rest of them concurred.
They conjectured that it might have been the peace and quiet that inspired this extraordinary display, that allowed Turn Around Norman to transcend his limits and turn as they had never seen him turn before, turn more slowly, yet

with more fire. Without the squeeze of crowds, the jibes of detractors, the mad mephitic mafficking of traffic, perhaps he was both more focused and less restrained. Then, they noticed something else. On that day, for the first time, Norman was working without a donation box.
"It's Christmas," said Can o' Beans. "It's Christmas, so he's performing for free."
"Yes," put in Conch Shell. "It is as if this performance is a gift the fellow is offering. Although to whom he is offering it we cannot know."
"I only wish Miss Charles were here to enjoy it," the bean can said.
"I wish to hell Miz Charles was here, too," said Dirty Sock. "Maybe the wild-haired bimbo wouldda brought Spoonzie back."
As one, their thoughts all switched to Spoon. Where and how was Spoon spending this Christmas Day? If any inanimate object did believe in Santa Claus, it probably was Spoon.
Spoon was thinking of them, as well. It seemed that in order to justify why he had encouraged Boomer to linger in Jerusalem, why he'd handed him a "secret assignment," Buddy found it necessary to go into a long spiel about the Dome of the Rock. "So that's what the Temple Mount is like these days," said Spoon to a completely bewildered ashtray. "Just wait until I inform my friends."
"Y'all know what the Dome of the Rock is?" Buddy asked.
Patsy rotated her curls in the negative direction.
"A covered stadium on Gibraltar," ventured Verlin. "Where they play the
Mediterranean Super Bowl."
"I've heard Mr. Hadee speak of it," said Ellen Cherry. "Must be connected
in some way with Jerusalem."
"Well, yes indeedy, it's the blessed centerpiece of Jerusalem," Buddy
informed them. "It's up there on the Temple Mount, where the Hebrew temples of Solomon and Herod stood, where our young Lord Jesus outfoxed the rabbis, and so forth. In the seventh century, your wily A-rab was running the show in that part of the world, and he built a very expensive mosque on the ruins of Herod's Temple, built two mosques, actually, and the biggest one, the one all covered with beautiful blue tiles and sportin' a bodacious big golden dome, he called the Dome of the Rock. It's the first blessed thing a body lays eyes on when he gets near Jerusalem.
"This here Dome of the Rock is the third most sacred place in the Islamic religion. Why? Because ol' Mohammed swore up and down that God took him

for a horseback ride to heaven from the Temple Mount. Rode him around for a spell, introduced him to Moses and Jesus, then dropped him off agin right where he started. How's that for a fish story?
"Well, you can burn your A-rab for a fool, but you won't git no ashes. Mohammed's whopper gave the Moslems claim to the Temple Mount as a place of major importance in their own religion, cuttin' in on the legitimate claims of your Christian and your Jew, and his followers went on to build these ritzy mosques up there. Jerusalem's back in Jewish hands at last, but your A-rab is sittin' tight on the Temple Mount, and he's got the Jew and the Christian by the balls. Pardon me, ladies. Pardon me, please."
"But what's all the fuss about the Arabs having it?" asked Patsy.
"Yeah," said Verlin. "I can't figure out what all that's got to do with us Christians. Or how you, and now Boomer, fit into it."
Ellen Cherry was silent. She leaned back on the sofa, rubbed her full tummy, and thought, Middle East. Rugs. Boomer. Rugs. Boomerrugs.
"Prophecy!" It was a saxophone honk of the most forceful urgency. "Prophecy!" A wild, primitive, blue-rimmed blare such as might have issued from the gullet of a marsh stork whose eggs were threatened by predators. "Don't you know your prophecy? To know God's prophetic word is to know the future. The Bible is better than a crystal ball. God's tole us ever'thing that's to come to pass. Verliñ, you've read your Scriptures."
"All right, I have. But I don't recall any mention of this Dome of the Rock. ..."
"Well, of course, the Scriptures don't mention it by name. The blamed thing wasn't built yet when the Scriptures was written."
"But, Bud," said Patsy, "you just said that God told us everything that was to happen."
The sax emitted a disgusted grunt. "Not by name. God didn't mention things by name. Modern names of things didn't mean diddly-squat to the prophets of old. They went by description, which is more lasting and accurate than names. And this is what they conveyed to us concerning the subject in question. Listen up."
"I hope this is leading to Boomer Petway," said Patsy.
"Amen," said Ellen Cherry, which, for better or for worse, was the only religious word she'd uttered all Christmas.
"First," said Buddy, "the first stage of God's program is that your Jew

would return to Israel." He paused and cleared his throat. "Is-ra-el. After the Romans destroyed Herod's Temple, the Jews scattered like buckshot, lit out for here, there, and ever'where, this ghetto and that med school, but Jehovah promised that someday they'd regroup and git their milk and honey back, and, now, for a fact, they got it. Second stage was that Jerusalem would once agin be a Jewish city. Well, sure as shootín', in nineteen hundred and sixty-seven, that come to pass, prophecy fulfilled. The third and final stage is that the Temple shall be rebuilt. That's next in line. Then—bingo! Armageddon and Redemption."
"So, why don't they just rebuild the thing?" asked Patsy.
"How can they rebuild it when the dad-gummed Dome of the Rock is sittin' smack dab on their building site? That's the problem, children. Our Lord can't come back till the Third Temple is built, and the Temple can't be built as long as the Dome of the Rock is there. Are you catchin' on?"
"Well, if the Lord said it would get rebuilt, it'll get rebuilt."
"Dang right it will, Patsy. We're gonna make sure of that."
"How?"
"By levelin' them A-rab mosques and recapturin' the Temple Mount." "You're planning to destroy the Dome of the Rock? You and your buddies?" "Me and my yeshivas. Yes, you might say that."
"So that the Messiah will come?"
"After the Temple is rebuilt, he'll have to come."
"Hold on just one minute, Bud. Sounds to me like you're trying to force the
Messiah's hand. To force the Second Coming into happening."
The Reverend Buddy Winkler shrugged. He picked a crumb of pie crust from the table and consigned it to the snap and grind of golden choppers, one
less midnight snack to which the roaches might look forward. "How long we supposed to wait?" he asked.
"Why, we're supposed to wait until the Lord is good and ready, that's how long."
"Patsy's right," said Verlin. "Doesn't seem right to be messin' with Jesus Christ's timetable. To try to hurry him into something. Doesn't that trouble you?"
"Used to. Then I remembered the words, 'God helps them what helps themselves.' Maybe that's why Christ has been takin' so blamed long. He's been waitin' and waitin' for us to git up offen our fat fannies and seize the initiative. After all, the Jew helped hisself to Jerusalem. It wasn't handed to him on no silver platter. That, as you're aware, was way back in sixty-seven. Time to git on

with it!"
Verlin shook his head. "I don't know, Bud ..."
"Well, I know. It come to me in a vision. Loud and bright. Right in your
own living room. Which is the only reason I'm lettin' you in on our plans. 'Course, I can't tell you ever'thing." He fired a glance at Ellen Cherry. "I shouldn't be saying nothin' in front of our little painted-up doll baby here. Not with the company she keeps."
"Oh, take a hike, Uncle Bud."
"We met that Spike and Abu last night," said Patsy. "They were right nice gentlemen."
"Right nice tools of Satan."
Verlin spoke. "They weren't all that bad, Bud."
"Oh, no? Well, lemme tell you . . ."
"Just shut up about them! You've got a hell of a nerve criticizing them and
anything they do, you and your screwball schemes. Demolishing a mosque somewhere to make Jesus come back. What a fairy tale! They ought to lock you away before you hurt somebody."
"Ellen Cherry, now," said Verlin.
"Oh, a lot of folks are gonna git hurt," said Buddy, grinning. "Make no mistake 'bout that."
"And is one of those folks Boomer Petway?" asked Patsy. "You getting him involved in blowing up that Dome of the Rock?"
"Nobody, I don't believe, said nothin' 'bout blowing nothin' up. And, no, Boomer ain't gonna git hurt. Unless the Devil hurts him. Which he can't iffen he's satisfactorily repentant. I just needed a man in Jerusalem is all. My yeshivas are dedicated, but they're, you know, not like us. They're what you might call exotic. Esoteric. We got us good solid Christians in Jerusalem, but I feel they sometimes let themselves git bamboozled by the Jews. I jest needed a man of my own over there, somebody I could trust, in case I ever have an errand or two to run that I don't necessarily want none of them others to know about."
"So Boomer's your errand boy?"
"Boomer ain't nothin', Patsy. He ain't nothin', and he don't know nothin'. He's just there in case the Lord and I have need of him."
"You better be careful what you get him into."
"Oh, I will. I will."
"Why don't we please change the subject?" Verlin suggested. "The dang
game's in halftime. Here, we got us some presents to unwrap." From beneath

Ellen Cherry's scraggly but artistically decorated tree, he removed a large package, wrapped in white paper with a green and red holly pattern. "Here, Bud. I do believe Santy left this one for you."
"Why, thank you," said Buddy. "Thank y'all." He pulled at the green bow. "Lemme see what's in here."
"Hope it fits," said Verlin.
"It will," said Ellen Cherry. "It's a straitjacket."
The minister didn't respond. Very slowly, very carefully, he loosened the
wrapping, exhibiting a bit more patience with his Christmas surprise than he had for the end of the world. Restless, Verlin stole glances at the halftime show, and Patsy sponged a smear of yam from the tabletop. Under the sink, the cockroaches monitored Patsy's action with exasperation, as if the cockroaches were a needy institution and Patsy one of those coy philanthropists who never give their money away.
The family gathering dissolved about ten-thirty. Alone, Ellen Cherry's thoughts returned again and again to Raoul. She had all but decided to invite him up, but when she went to the toilet to take a pee, she discovered that she'd gotten her "dot."
Oh, well. She sighed. And while begrudgingly inserting a tampon, sang three complete verses of "Jingle Bells."
On the day after Christmas, Verlin and Patsy went to the Museum of Modern Art to have a look at the Airstream turkey. It was Patsy's idea. "I've seen the fool thing for nothin'," complained Verlin. "Why do I have to pay some Yankee good money to see it again?"
They went in a taxi, its windows rolled down to receive the unseasonable warmth. The chaos and din of Day After shoppers flooded in with the weather. "It's like Asia," said Patsy, marveling at the multitudes, their gaily colored burdens, their amplified murmur. "It's like—" said Verlin, unable to conceive of a continent, a country, any community of humans with which to compare this parcel-packing, fume-inhaling, elbow-throwing, traffic-dodging throng. "It's like the coronation of the locust queen," said Verlin finally. Patsy didn't understand, and Verlin wasn't sure that he did, either, although his cerebrum supported the frail memory of a plague documented on a wildlife show.
Understandably, Ellen Cherry had scant desire to see the turkey again, especially now that it was surrounded by art. Surrounded by art? The turkey was

art. The art cardinals had ordained it so. Well, she would wager that it was the only work in the Modem Museum in which a couple had enjoyed a honeymoon, although, on second thought, there were several paintings in the collection that looked as if they'd been fucked over.
When they stopped by the Ansonia on the way to the airport— Patsy had to pick up her pie plates—her parents had little to say about the motorized turkey except that it looked "different, really different" parked inside a big, grand room. They did, however, chatter about another piece of Boomer's, something the museum apparently had purchased out of the Sommervell show. It was, as they described it, a huge, welded steel coathanger, maybe six feet long. Folded over its bar was a flat, deflated skyscraper, sewn out of canvas, its windows, entranceways, and other architectural features painted on. The piece was hanging from the ceiling, and there was a card on the wall that listed Boomer's name, the materials he had used, and the title. The title was Donald Trump's Pants Come Back From the Cleaners.
"Obviously," said Ellen Cherry, in a mock Ultima accent, "it's fraught, simply fraught, with significance."
Verlin was perplexed. "I see that stuff of Boomer's on display in a famous museum, and I see them pictures of ol' socks and cans and spoons that you're making ..."
"I'm still freaked out about that spoon," said Ellen Cherry, glancing at the mantelpiece.
"Oh, honey, it's not exactly in the poltergeist class," said Patsy.
"... and I wonder who all's crazy in this world and who's sane."
"Well, Daddy, I used to believe that artists went crazy in the process of
creating the beautiful works of art that kept society sane. Nowadays, though, artists make intentionally ugly art that's only supposed to reflect society rather than inspire it. So I guess we're all loony together now, loony rats in the shithouse of commercialism."
"That's pretty language from a young lady."
"I will say this, though: the looniest artist I ever met was normal as white bread beside Buddy Winkler."
"You take your uncle Bud too serious. He's mainly just talk. And some of that talk we sinners would do well to heed."
"I hope for his sake it's just talk, because if I ever find out he had anything to do with shooting Mr. Cohen ..."
"Hush, girl! Don't you be insinuatin' stuff like that."

"Okay, but ..."
Ellen Cherry accompanied them to the sidewalk, where Pepe whistled them a cab. Raoul wasn't on duty yet. After Patsy and Verlin had driven away to La Guardia, she went back upstairs, lay down on the sofa, and attempted to nap. Every time she started to doze off, however, she experienced the sensation that the spoon on the mantelpiece was watching her.
Eventually, although she felt ridiculous in doing so, she got up and stuck the spoon in her underwear drawer. Next to her vibrator. It would have been humanly impossible for her to imagine the conversations that were to ensue from that meeting.
After New Year's (a toxically lonely New Year's, on the eve of which she'd gone searching for Raoul, her diaphragm already in place, only to be informed by Pepe that Raoul and "his band" had up and split to Los Angeles, man), Ellen Cherry was switched to the dinner shift at Isaac & Ishmael's. She had become, for all practical purposes, a cocktail waitress, since business at the I & I was largely confined to the bar.
The important thing was that there was business. When word of the huge, high-definition television spread through the neighborhood, men dropped in out of curiosity and stayed to drink, snack, chat, and watch sporting events. Many foreigners who were connected to the United Nations had developed a taste for American sports. To watch the contests on a mammoth screen while washing down familiar Mediterranean treats with their native beers, wines, thick coffees, or teas was an enticement hard to resist. Only a few complained about the bamboo. Some even brought their wives. On Super Bowl Sunday, when the bar was packed to overflowing, Greeks actually sat down next to Turks, Arabs next to Jews.
A Super Bowl kicker could have placed a field goal inside the smile of Roland Abu Hadee. Spike Cohen wore a satisfied smile, as well, although his green eyes, greener than the Egyptian beer freighted by the waitpersons, greener than the cucumber slices that garnished the dishes of baba ghanoug, eyes hooded now by a crooked arch of scar tissue; Spike's eyes turned frequently to survey the street—and the nondescript black shoes of the two security guards, marching on the frosty sidewalk, to and fro, to and fro.
When Ellen Cherry and Boomer were turkeying across America, they frequently found themselves looking at the rear end of vehicles upon which

bumper stickers or license-plate holders proclaimed publicly and rather plaintively, "I'd Rather Be Skiing." Or, "I'd Rather Be Golfing." Some of the discontented motorists would rather have been hang gliding, while others wanted everyone on the road to be advised that they would have preferred to have been spiking a volleyball, climbing a mountain, sailing a boat, riding a mule, picking wild mushrooms, playing bridge, square dancing, or building the Eiffel Tower out of toothpicks.
"I wonder what my sticker would say?" Ellen Cherry had mused. "I reckon it'd be, 'I'd Rather Be Painting.'" She took a long pull from a can of diet Pepsi. "How about you, hon? What would your sticker say?"
She suspected that he'd insist on "I'd Rather Be Engaged in Cunni-lingus," although she knew, and believed that deep inside he knew, that his proclamations of ungovernable sexual appetite were, like most males', somewhat exaggerated. She wasn't positive that he'd even heard her, for he had been scanning the roadside, counting cows, mentally welding broken hay balers, or something equally absorbing. Yet, Boomer hadn't hesitated. He'd made a frown so sad and wide that it was reflected on the side of her athletically sweating Pepsi. And he'd said:
"They're a right sorry admission of defeat, them signs are. If my life was that compromised, I sure wouldn't advertise it. My sign would say, 'If There Was Something Else I'd Rather Be Doing, I'd Damn Well Be Doing It.' "
Ellen Cherry recalled that exchange as she subwayed to work. By the time she walked from the station to the I & I, the Super Bowl would be over, thank goodness, but there was bound to be a lot of cleaning up to do. She didn't dread it, exactly. In fact, she was ambivalent to a degree that made her wonder how her bumper sticker would have read had one been affixed to her buttocks on that nippy January afternoon. Her life seemed deflated, vacuous, pointless, like Colonial Pines personified. But she couldn't think of a single other thing that she'd rather be doing. At least nothing to which she was willing to admit.
~
Several blocks away, the objects were lined up at the window grate, wondering where everybody was. It wasn't unusual for them to puzzle over the whereabouts of Ellen Cherry and Spoon. The objects— the can and the sock, at any rate—thought about Ellen Cherry and Spoon as frequently as a reformed

cigarette smoker thinks about his little lost friends. Today, however, the population of Manhattan seemed to have disappeared as completely as their comrade and their potential benefactor. There was nothing moving on Fifth Avenue except Turn Around Norman, and he looked like the last strand of spaghetti to twirl out of Pompeii.
The congregation at mass that noon had been untypically small, consisting primarily of elderly women, held upright by mahogany canes and the galvanizing glare of their diamonds. The few men among them had bolted the instant the service ended. Even the archbishop beat a hasty retreat, diving into his waiting limo and lashing his chauffeur with his rosary beads, like a jockey whipping a mount. What was the hurry? Where could everyone else be? Conch Shell tried to reassure Painted Stick that nothing momentous had transpired in Jerusalem. "The age that is to come has not yet come," she said, but she wasn't totally convincing. Those two had never heard of the Super Bowl, naturally, and the other two had forgot.
Eventually, an old sedan rattled up to the crosswalk, full of music, smoke, and rust. When the light changed, it pooted and tooted off in the direction of New Jersey, but not before the objects noted a sticker on its bumper that announced, "I'd Rather Be Partying." Can o' Beans imagined it an infraction of taste, if not of grammar, declaring, "You should never trust anyone who uses 'party' as a verb." He/she felt appropriately chastised, however, when Dirty Sock growled and shot back, "Uh-huh, and don't trust anybody who'd rather be grammatically correct than have a good time."
"Touché," said the bean can. "Although in the age that is to come, the two needn't be mutally exclusive."
~
Some of the Super Bowl fans stayed on for dinner. Alcohol must have made them very hungry or else very brave. Spike Cohen alone seemed to remember how dangerous the I & I could be. From his post behind the cash register, he kept one eye on the street, as if the street were a crocodile-skin shoe that might at any moment revert to its original state of being. When, around the corner on First Avenue, a truck backfired, thin electrical noises came out of his windpipe.
Spike's jitters were for naught. Except for the fact that they ran out of

chick-peas, the evening produced scant catastrophe. The next evening was positively humdrum. And the one after that was as bereft of disorder as a Heidelburg symposium on anal retention. In truth, the entire winter passed as peacefully and leisurely as a python digesting a Valium addict. The many enemies of the restaurant and its politics either shifted their attention to targets closer to the Middle East or else decided that the intractable Cohen and Hadee simply weren't worth the trouble. In any case, Isaac & Ishmael's first stint as the most famous restaurant in New York definitely was over.
Relatively speaking, Ellen Cherry Charles likewise spent an uneventful winter. About the only time that the needle bounced on her seismograph was when Boomer informed her, at the close of one of his increasingly infrequent letters, that if she would drop by the Sommervell Gallery, she could pick up a check.
It seemed that Boomer had been booted off the kibbutz for making what he called "an improper suggestion" (she had to grin as she wondered what the fool might have recommended), but he and his sculptor friend (still no mention of the sculptor's gender: it could only be female) were "sharing a space" in West Jerusalem, where they were collaborating on a project of apparently monumental scale. "This here is a real sculpture," he wrote. "Even you'd have to say so."
Soon after Christmas, she had written and asked him point-blank about what duties he was performing for Buddy Winkler, and now in early February he wrote:
The only single thing I've done for Bud is buy some welding supplies and deliver them to a basement over near East Jerusalem. It was a right weird scene. There were three or four rabbis in long black coats, black hats, and woolly black beards sitting there in a cellar so dark you couldn't read Braille with a blowtorch, and these old boys were knitting. Knitting away with them long clickety needles, just like your mama. I asked them if they was getting ready for a baby shower, but they couldn't speaka the English, and the fellow who let me in explained they were the sacred knitters knitting the sacred garments that the high priests would wear once the Temple was rebuilt and open for business. I asked him when that might be and he patted me on the shoulder and said I understand you weld, and I said yeah, for a price. He smiled and showed me to the door and that was that. Bud ain't said boo to me since.
I guess you been hearing about how bad things are on the West Bank and Gaza Strip. It's a sorry situation. Kids shot or beat up every day. Palestinians

setting fire to the orchards. Jerusalem is as jumpy as a jitterbug in a blender. The word you hear most here is revenge. Arabs talking revenge, Jews talking revenge; old people, young people, everybody's set on some kind of vengeance. I swear, they'd rather have them a mess of revenge than a big juicy steak and a roll in silk sheets with a movie star. Crazy folks, crazy town, but highly interesting. Wonderful amount of secrecy and intrigue. I feel like I'm somewhere being here. You know what I mean? Lot of places you go to, when you get there you feel like you didn't really go anywhere, but not Jerusalem, not for a minute. There's honeysuckle here, too, same as Virginia. Smells like the City of Heaven, all right. And the rent's cheap. Which reminds me, I know the Ansonia's a burden on you. If you'll drop by Ultima's, she'll help you out with a check.
Love always, Boomer
I'd rather drink parasite soup than drop by Ultima's, thought Ellen Cherry, but eviction was staring her in the face like a deviate on the subway, so on her next day off she braced herself and walked down to Fifty-seventh Street in the snow. There were as many art galleries on East Fifty-seventh as there were sushi bars on East Forty-ninth, but she tried not to notice. She hadn't been eyeball to pigment since before Thanksgiving, unless you could count the paintings that leaned against every wall of her apartment, flaunting their blank backsides as if mooning David Hockney. Nor had she paid a visit to Turn Around Norman, an omission painfully clear to the objects beneath St. Patrick's. Whether or not Norman was aware of her absence was anybody's guess.
She expected Ultima to keep her waiting—gallery dealers made a practice of that in order to make themselves seem as busy as doctors and as important as lawyers—but the snowmelt had not completely evaporated from Ellen Cherry's red vinyl boots when she was summoned. As she followed the saleswoman to Ultima's office, she shielded her eyes against the Leon Golub lithographs on the walls. Artburn. She forgot the perils of art, however, when confronted by the perils of dog. Three dogs to be exact, three beribboned, perfumed, but untamed little hellhounds that came shooting across the room, howling, leaping, and baring their fangs. Ultima appeared in a cloud of silk and chic, and shooed two of them away. The third continued to snap at Ellen Cherry's heel. She found herself thinking of Jezebel and protecting every part of herself except her skull, her feet, and the palms of her hands.
"Baby Butts!" called Ultima in a stern but affectionate tone. "Naughty doggy!"

"Homicidal doggy," said Ellen Cherry under her breath. She could swear she detected morbid suds in the corners of the doggy's mouth.
Ultima squatted on the polished hardwood floor. The disproportionate weight of her bosom caused her to tilt forward, but she righted herself before she, too, took a bite out of Ellen Cherry's boot. "Come on, Baby Butts, upsy me," crooned Ultima, and the pooch, still frothing and snarling, leapt into her arms. "Give mums a smootch."
Jesus weeping Christ! thought Ellen Cherry. Do you suppose Boomer kissed the mouth that licks that mad dog's chops?
Although she was chilled from the long walk, Ellen Cherry refused coffee, tea, or sherry. She was cordial about it, but she obviously wanted to pick up her money and get out of there. Ultima obliged her. Cuddling Baby Butts while the other dogs tussled beneath the Frank Lloyd Wright desk, she pulled a check from a metal box and passed it to Ellen Cherry, who managed to snatch it away without losing any flesh. She did, however, lose color.
"Is something unsatisfactory?"
"Uh, well, aside from the fact that Baby Butts drooled on it, I guess I was expecting more."
"More than seven thou?"
"The show sold out. It must've grossed a hundred grand."
"In excess of a hundred. But then there were deductions."
"Your commission."
"The gallery's commission, yes. State and federal taxes. And Mr. Petway
has had needs. I gather that steel is quite dear in Palestine. He's making—" "A big sculpture. Yeah, I know." Does she think Boomer doesn't write to
me?
The women stared at each other for so long and with such will that Baby Butts began to whimper. He seemed surprised and hurt to learn that he hadn't a monopoly on power in the room. Eventually, Ultima smiled and produced a second check. "Congratulations," she said.
"What's this?" Ellen Cherry took the bank draft slowly, deliberately, daring the pup to interfere. It was in the amount of eighteen hundred dollars.
"Two of your works sold," said Ultima. "As you're well aware, there's been a rekindling of interest in the pictorial landscape. I mean, there's so little of it left outdoors. Collectors have preferred, of course, naturalistic pictures, but the supply of first-rate oeuvre is running thin. In any case, I showed your paintings to a couple from Rochester who didn't seem in the least put off by your, ah,

excesses. So, congratulations, my dear, on your first New York sale. Perhaps you should fetch in several more."
"Thanks," said Ellen Cherry. "Thanks. Maybe I will." Not wishing Ultima to be further entertained by how stunned she was, she excused herself and sailed for the door.
Trudging home in the snow, a check in each fist like Chinese hand warmers, she could only think, Now I have an excuse for Mr. Cohen why I can't put any work in Ye Olde Art Shoppe in Westchester.
Ellen Cherry didn't take any more paintings to the gallery, not even one of the Boomer nudes (oh, how she would have loved to see the look on Ultima's face!), but she stewed about it for weeks. She lay awake nights debating the pros and cons of it.
Should she resume her identity as an artist? Could a person choose to be or not to be an artist? Once certain childhood forces were set in motion, you either were an artist or you weren't, and if you were, you might choose not to exhibit, you might even choose not to produce; you might, in other words, reject an art career, an art life, but you were still an artist. Right? Or was that just semantics? According to egalitarians, everybody had artistic talent. On a hobby level, that was possibly true. So what? It struck her that while a great many people wanted to want to be artists, they didn't actually want to be. A girlfriend in Seattle once said to her, "I'd give everything if I could paint like you," and Ellen Cherry had replied, with only a trace of pomposity, "I did give everything."
Talent was merely the underpinnings. To be an artist, you also had to have nerve. And to maintain nerve, you had to have drive. Apparently, she had lost her drive. Yet if she'd truly lost it, why was she fretting this way? Furthermore, if it was impossible to shed her art skin, no matter how she might twist or squirm, wouldn't it be only sensible to take financial advantage of her lot, to relax and enjoy some modest success? Or was it the "modest" part (in light of Boomer's triumph) that galled her?
On and on she would stew, until, in desperation, she'd reach for her vibrator so that she might distract herself.
To a lesser extent, she stewed over Buddy Winkler. Shortly after the holidays, she had taken Roland Abu Hadee aside and asked him what would happen should zealots attack and destroy the Dome of the Rock.
"War," replied Abu, matter-of-factly. "War would happen."
"You mean the Muslims would retaliate against synagogues and stuff?"

"No," said Abu. "I mean war. Syria, Libya, Iran, Lebanon, probably Jordan and Egypt and Saudi Arabia, perhaps nations as far away as Pakistan and Indonesia would declare war, jihad, holy war, against Israel. That is how strongly Muslims feel about the Dome of the Rock. They are prepared one and all to die for this. The Israelis would be so outnumbered that they would be forced to resort to nuclear weapons. In which case, the Soviet Union would probably be obliged to supply Islam with nuclear warheads. And that most certainly would draw America into it. Oh, yes, were the mosques on the Temple Mount destroyed, there would be a great thunderclap. Both polar caps would rattle like saucers, babies would be born smelling of sulfur. The terror within would then be without. The egg of fire would finally hatch. Armageddon. World War Three, if you prefer."
As soon as Abu left the kitchen, Ellen Cherry went directly to the wall phone and dialed Buddy. Normally, she might not have had the stomach, but she was disturbed, and it didn't matter to her that it was after midnight.
"Urnmm."
"Hello. Uncle Buddy?"
"Doll baby. I was jes' dreamin' 'bout you. Or some little play-pretty equally
as sweet."
"Listen up, Uncle Bud. Do you know what'd happen if the Dome of the
Rock was destroyed?"
Buddy Winkler knew, all right. He might be in pajamas, a night-mask of
ointment on his boils, an anchovy paste of sleep in his eyes, but he knew. "It'd precipitate the ultimate struggle between good and evil that's prophesied to precede the Second Coming and the redemption of man. Hallelujah. Amen. What time is it, anyways?"
"It could start World War Three."
"Dang tootin' it could. That's the whole point of it."
"You mean to tell me you're willing to gamble with the lives of innocent
people, billions of innocent people, risk the lives of everybody on earth, animals, trees, little children, have them roast in fire storms, have them covered with sores and burns, dying of radiation sickness, all that horrible, horrible pain and suffering—"
"Hold on. You jes' hold on now, little miss bleedin' heart. It ain't a gamble. The word of God is not no lottery ticket. It shall come to pass. Shall! His admonitions are as plain as the nose on your painted face. And sure it's gonna be horrible. The Lord God designed it to be horrible. But the righteous'll come out

of it jes' fine, thank you. Jesus'll gather unto him the faithful to his breast, and they'll enjoy sweet everlastin' life. Them burns will heal, and them sores will vanish away. As for your careless and wicked, they'll jes' be gittin' what's due to 'em. They've had their fair chance, they'll burn by their own iniquity. So let the war trumpets sound. Let the missiles rain. It's God's will, and he'll decide who's innocent and who ain't, not you or the ACLU."
Ellen Cherry was incredulous. "You're so damn sure of yourself that you're willing to take a chance on starting World War Three. You'll put that weight on your shoulders?"
"You got a hearing problem? I already explained to you that— Never mind. Your heart is hardened. I don't know where you're at at this ungodly hour, but I beseech you to get yourself home and read your Scriptures and kneel beside the bed outta which you've driven your lawful husband, and pray. 'Repent ye therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out when the times of refreshing shall come, from the presence of the Lord; and he shall send Jesus.' Acts, three, nineteen."
" 'The time of refreshing' they call it?"
"Yes, indeedy. Refreshing as a Co'-Cola."
"I have a good mind to tell the cops what you're up to."
Buddy chuckled. "What cops? The po-lice here got no authority over it, and
the po-lice in Israel are, most of 'em, on my side. Your righteous Jew wants this as bad as your Christian. 'Course, after the Second Coming, them Jews that are worthy will be forcibly converted. We'll all of us be Christians in the New Jerusalem."
"How about the Muslims? Or the Buddhists and Hindus?"
"Fried meat."
Ellen Cherry slammed down the receiver. She stewed about Buddy
throughout the night and for many nights thereafter, when she wasn't stewing about artisthood. What with Buddy's shenanigans, what with the I & I's raison d'être, what with Boomer's dallying over there doing who knew what, it was getting harder and harder to carpet-tack the Middle East to the living room floor of her mind.
In all the years that Ellen Cherry had known Buddy Winkler, she had never heard him utter a sentence that didn't amount to a cliché. She concluded that that was what organized religion did to people. It limited them to thinking secondhand thoughts. It caused them to live secondhand lives. Wasn't that what

religion had in common with totalitarian politics? Nazi Germany, the Inquisition, Stalinism, the Crusades, these were what happened when reality was allowed to give way to cliché.
Behind the sixth veil, like a pearl behind cheesecloth, was the realization that "the end of the world" was the most dangerous cliché of all. Incapable of penetrating the veil, unaware of the veil's existence, Ellen Cherry could only stew—and wonder why Buddy had such a hankering for apocalypse.
1. Because it would mean that his side had finally won?
2. Because the messy, unpredictable imperfection of life/life would
solidify once and for all into the perfectly ordered, totally controlled, solid-gold monolith of death/life?
3. Because he was lonely?
If Bud was prepared to act out some reckless biblical fantasy in order to alleviate an unbearable dissatisfaction and loneliness, then there was something that she could do about it. No, no, not even were it that simple, not even were she as versed in dissatisfaction and loneliness as she believed, could she spread herself out on an altar such as that. Impossible. Ridiculous.
The next morning, as soon as she had replaced the vibrator in her underwear drawer, the panties ceased their girlish gossiping and began to chirp, "Who? Who? Who?" Who had it been this time? Whose name had she called aloud when she straddled the white pony of orgasm? Norman? Raoul? Was it Boomer again? "Who, Daruma, tell us who?"
The vibrator would reveal nothing until the panties settled down. He lay there beside a mortified Spoon, chanting Japanese syllables over and over in a low, deep monotone: "Wooga go namx ne, Wooga go nami ne." When at last the drawer was still, he said, "A single cloud floating in midday sky contain no duck sauce." He waited to see if the panties would protest, and when they did not, he said, "Good. Name my mistress call aloud was ..."
Spoon hummed a tune to herself, hoping to drown out the name, but despite her efforts, she heard it anyway.
"Buddy," said the vibrator. "She call out 'Uncca Bud.'"
Spoon, too, spent much of her time in a stew. A metaphoric stew. She hadn't been eaten with in so long it made her heartsick. Whatever else happened when they reached Jerusalem, she would be eaten with there. Yes! She would see to it.

Upon entering the Third Temple, Spoon would go directly to the cafeteria. Interject herself between a priest and his pudding. Now that she was shiny and silvery again, perhaps the Messiah himself. . . . She could not entertain the sacrilege of crossing the Messiah's lips, but she could imagine being cradled in his big healing hand of hide and satin. The Messiah was feeding fish soup to the blind. Ice cream to starving orphans. The Messiah used her to draw a magic circle in the honey pot. "There," he told his apostles. "That will keep the flies away."
The dreaming was pleasant, but the stewing was not. Objects don't swim in history the way humanity does. Even those rare objects who've recaptured the power of locomotion possess an innate patience to which no human saint could reasonably aspire. Nevertheless, Spoon fretted for reunion. She was anxious to tell her traveling companions about the Dome of the Rock, about Mr. Petway being in Jerusalem, about, most especially, the paintings of Miss Charles. The fact that Miss Charles had painted dozens of portraits of them—of them: Dirty Sock, Can o' Beans, and Spoon—could only mean that she was their God-given champion.
And yet, Spoon stewed, if she cherishes me so much, why has she sentenced me to the perpetual company of shallow, chatty undergarments and her Oriental instrument of debauchery? Can o' Beans had advised her that one could learn from foreigners, but when it came to Phoenician sticks and Japanese dildos, one hardly could make a drop of sense of anything they said. If anything, the vibrator was more obscurant than Painted Stick.
"Where do you come from, sir?" Spoon had asked when they met. "Same place guano came from that unseen bird drop into misty sea." "That's nice," said Spoon, trying to be polite. She wasn't yet aware of the
fellow's obscene function, believing him to be a curling iron.
"Three pound of flax," said the vibrator.
The underpants didn't understand him, either, but they acted as if he were as
wise as Solomon. (Had Solomon actually been wise, that is.) They bowed to him and called him "Master" or "Daruma," and, as difficult as it was for them to smother their giggles, they chanted with him for two hours every day. "Wooga go nami ne, Wooga go nami ne."
"This would give me a headache," complained Spoon. "If I had a head."
"Ah! Headless headache!" the vibrator exclaimed, delighted. "Good. There hope for you, yet."

Left to their own devices, the panties would spend their time jabbering about fashion, fad diets, celebrity life-styles, and popular music. Even when they were meditating under Daruma's supervision, Spoon could sometimes hear them whispering about the weight this actress had lost or that one gained. They also loved to engage in relentless and often highly speculative gossip about Ellen Cherry Charles. They maintained a near obsession with Miss Charles's sex life, which Spoon attributed to the fact that they, singularly and in rotation, were usually in close proximity to the, uh, hub of that presumed activity.
As a defense against their vulgar and embarrassing chitchat, Spoon began to relate her adventures to them: where she'd been and where she was going, under what circumstances and in whose company. Easily entertained, the underpants listened attentively. They appreciated a good story. Not for a millisecond, however, did they believe that she had attained a state of locomotion. To them, it was just a tall tale. Insulted that the panties would question her veracity, Spoon executed a couple of feeble cartwheels and a clumsy pirouette. Don't think that that didn't snap their elastic! From then on, they were twice as attentive. Under his reserved exterior, even Daruma was impressed.
Considering that she could locomote, the panties couldn't understand why Spoon lay around stewing in a dresser drawer. Why didn't she light out for St. Patrick's and rejoin her interesting friends?
"First of all, I don't know the way," said Spoon.
"Way that is true Way cannot be known," countered the vibrator. "Secondly, the very idea of it gives me a fright."
"Those who would travel must learn to like dust," said Daruma. "Most important, though, is that we inanimate objects have an ethical
responsibility not to shatter the prevailing reality of human beings. Conch Shell was adamant about that. If a man saw me locomoting, why he'd think he'd gone insane or else witnessed a miracle. Can o' Beans says that people are too fragile for miracles."
"Honto des'," the vibrator said, sagely. "Is true. Two thousand year ago, virgin give birth. People still not get over it. Ha-ha-ha."
"I've never considered the Immaculate Conception in those terms," said Spoon, "and I fail to find humor in it. But I suppose you could be right. Maybe that's why God had to suspend the miraculous."
Content to listen to Spoon's stories, the panties seldom asked questions. In

his own cool way, however, Daruma exhibited an abiding curiosity. "The more talking and thinking, the farther from the truth," he was fond of saying, yet he queried Spoon persistently about such matters as how the decorated stick and the seashell managed to get from Jerusalem to a cave in Utah (or was it Wyoming?). There had been a time when Spoon had puzzled over that, as well. Now, though, she had the answer at hand.
"The Phoenicians took them. You probably think Columbus discovered America. No, he didn't. He was a good, brave Catholic, and I'd like to believe he was first, but he wasn't. The Phoenicians had wonderful sailing ships, and they sailed all over the world. Well, probably not the Pacific, but the other oceans. They knew about America many centuries before Columbus. Many, many centuries. Isn't that amazing? After the Romans destroyed Herod's Temple in—" Spoon had to stop and visualize numerals. She could see a seven, standing tall with its right arm outstretched, like a safety patrol boy at a school crossing, but she couldn't conjure up a clear picture of the number to its left. Somehow five didn't look right, rocking on its brontosaurus tail, nor did the hydrocephalic nine.
"Seventy something, AD. YOU know what A.D. means?"
"Oh, yeah," said a pair of cotton briefs. "That's like the current that makes Master vibrate when he's like operating on batteries."
"All vibrators operate on batteries," corrected a slightly older pair, bleached as blue as moonlight on snow. "You think a lady would wanna like fuck herself with something plugged into the wall?"
A tittering circulated in the drawer like birdsong in a box hedge. Spoon palpitated, coughed, and elected to press on. "After Jerusalem was destroyed again in seventy something, Painted Stick and Conch Shell ended up back with the Phoenicians. There were powerful priestesses who supposedly could read the future. Phoenicia was by then part of the Roman Empire, the Roman province of Syria. It continued to prosper economically, but the priestesses convinced a lot of people that their culture and religion were doomed. Which proved to be the case. Thanks to them, they began to take measures to try to insure survival, or, rather, reemergence at a later date."
"When people say 'take measures,' I always think like, you know, see how tall or wide something is," said a sweet, young voice from the undie pile. "Forty inches. Fifty inches."
"Like you mean Liz Taylor's hips?"
Again the drawer filled up with titters. Spoon turned to the vibrator, who sympathized but offered little help. "Greedy for bait, fish soon caught. You have

only to open mouth, your life lost."
Spoon decided to cut it short. "A priestess carried Conch Shell and Painted
Stick aboard a big ship, and they crossed the Atlantic and sailed as far as they could up the St. Lawrence river system. Then a party carried them overland for a long ways until the priestess found just the right hiding place. It was a small cave. The cave had a niche in it, and the priestess hid our shell and stick in the niche, but first she rubbed them in a particular way that put them into a trance. They were programmed not to wake up until they felt a certain familiar energy. That would be the signal that the era of Rome was finished and the earth was returning to its senses. I realize that it sounds ever so frightfully pagan, but that's the way it was explained to me."
"Ah, so," said Daruma the O-maker.
~
Months earlier, even before Boomer got his lame foot stuck in one of the seven mystical doors of Jerusalem, Ellen Cherry had transferred her wedding band from her left hand to her right, a sign that she was widowed or divorced, although neither was technically the case. Every time that the underwear drawer opened, a burst of light, solar or incandescent, would rush in, followed fairly quickly by a muscular, machine-tooled load of hydrocarbon-laden New York air, and then by Ellen Cherry's right hand, readily identifiable by its Jezebel-colored nails (long and sharp as the wrought-iron spikes around an embassy) and its simple ring of gold.
Each and every time the hand entered drawer space, Spoon hoped with all her might that it was reaching for her. Alas, were it morning, the hand selected the pantie of the day (Ellen Cherry owned few brassieres, as her lumps lacked sufficient mass to fully occupy a harness); were it night, the hand, always a bit hesitantly, withdrew Daruma. Alas.
One afternoon toward late February, when she had stayed home from work with a beefy cold, Ellen Cherry did remove Spoon from the drawer. What a hopeful moment for the stranded utensil! In the end, however, it was Ellen Cherry who benefited from the encounter.
She laid the spoon on the bed while she blew her nose. Then she picked it up and examined it, as if for a clue, previously overlooked, that finally might explain its queer reappearance. When that proved futile, Ellen Cherry held the

dainty object about six inches from her face and initiated the eye game. She hadn't played the eye game in what Patsy would characterize as "a coon's age," but she slid readily into it, aided, perhaps, by the film of tearwater excreted by her head in its attempt to flush alien bacteria.
The scalloped edges of the spoon's handle began to flutter like a paper clam shell, to spiral as if they were streams of some Botticelli bouillabaisse, a salty, rococo broth from which the emancipated souls of expiring sea snails rose to mingle in the spray with the flying locks of nymphs. The hollow ladle flattened, spread, and thinned in her vision until it resembled the Springmaid armpit of a ghost, and the shimmering silver of its surface manifested itself as a luminous brand of haywire energy. The deeper the penetration of Ellen Cherry's eye, the greater the loss or breakdown of that energy, and for that very reason it became necessary for her to penetrate more deeply yet, so that she might get in front of, outdistance, the dissolution. With something akin to the visual equivalent of a sprinter's finish-line kick, she did at last propel herself ahead of dissipation and found herself embedded in a continuous solid reef of what she could only describe as "information."
For one giddy moment she felt that she had oriented herself at the interface of the visible and invisible worlds, that she was contemplating wholeness, an ultimate state in which all forms and motions were imminent but protected by physical or metaphysical law from the process of selection or favoritism that would compromise them.
The sensation was short-lived, but while it lasted, Ellen Cherry seemed to hold something slippery by its tail. Slippery and altogether crucial. She couldn't quite identify it. She definitely couldn't analyze it. Instinctively, she realized that analysis would negate it. It seemed to be a kind of rapture, a rapturous essence that was available in all things if only one regarded them in a particular light. On a rational level, it made about as much sense as a whole deck of aces, yet it provided her with a fleeting joy so intense that the memory of it would comfort her for months to come and would drive from consideration any possibility of retreat or surrender.
The moment itself had passed, however. She needed to blow her nose again and swill another swig of cough syrup. She thought about using the spoon to take the medicine, but decided against it. Returning to normal focus, she opened the drawer and laid a sadly disappointed Spoon down among unworthy companions; "unworthy" not because they lacked the mysterious essence but because they were so ignorant they believed Phoenicians to be the people who

modernized window coverings. As in, "If it weren't for Phoenician blinds, it'd be curtains for all of us."
Within a week, her immune system had washed her cold out to sea, and Ellen Cherry returned to the I & I to find a change in the situation there. Since there were fewer televised sporting events on weekend nights, the nights when UN employees, like workers everywhere, were most inclined to go out, Spike and Abu decided to experiment with live music in the bar. They lugged a wad of bills to city hall, greased palms left and right, and obtained a cabaret license. Then they auditioned musicians.
After overturning every stone in New York's ethnic music underground, they located a young Yemenite man who could and would sing both Arabic and Israeli folk songs. Bareheaded and wearing a baby blue dinner jacket so as to appear impartial, the fellow performed on Sundays, accompanied by his eleven- year-old brother on bass and his grandfather on clay drums. His guitar and voice had a melancholy cast, no matter what the tempo, and the tunes in his repertoire featured lines such as, "Yesterday I cleaned my rifle while my girlfriend slept and the almond trees wept with infinite joy." Business on Sunday nights did not increase dramatically.
For the entertainment of Friday and Saturday night customers, an East Jerusalem nightclub band was hired. "Why not? Israeli Jews like this music, too," Spike explained. "It's Oriental music. They don't believe this very much in Westchester, but Israel is basically an Oriental country, already."
The musicians in the band were a mixed bag of Palestinians, Egyptians, and Lebanese. Every one of them was older than sixty (sometimes the Yemenite grandfather sat in), but they played with ecstasy and zeal. When they got going, they jiggled the building with shrill desert gusts and tumbling layers of complex thunder. The dissonant melodies of ancient lutes rolled with the rapid-fire punches thrown by the drums, while snake-charmer reeds wrapped themselves sinuously around the ankles of every beat and note.
Indeed, the band did attract patrons, although not in such numbers as to justify the additional expense. It didn't take long for Spike and Abu to realize that live entertainment was a losing proposition, but they personally liked the music so much that they hesitated to terminate it.
"It's a marvelous orchestra," said Spike, "though I regret that they aren't employing a tambourine."
"I miss the tambourine, as well," said Abu. For Ellen Cherry's benefit, he

elaborated. "In the Middle East, tambourines are the expressions of both mourning and mirth. Centuries ago, they were the only instruments played at funerals and at wedding feasts. They make the quintessential music of Jerusalem because Jerusalem is simultaneously a funeral and a celebration. Spike, I will inquire of the bandleader if they might add a tambourine."
Several days later, Abu reported on the conversation he'd had with the toothless old Lebanese who led the band. "That gentleman tells me they have no tambourine because they have no woman with the orchestra. He tells me that the tambourine is the sole feminine instrument of the Middle East. Before Mohammed came, it was associated with Astarte, the Goddess. Is that not interesting? One of the other musicians said that the tambourine is a female due to the fact that it makes a pretty jingle and is designed to be spanked. That is the more recent, patriarchal attitude, I suppose. At any rate, I inquired if they knew of a woman who might perform on the tambourine with them some evening. They claimed they did not, but when I hinted that it could prolong their engagement here, they agreed to check into it."
Spike nodded in appreciation. "That's very nice," he said. "Last time I'm in Jerusalem, I got to hear a very nice tambourine being played by a belly-dancer woman wearing no shoes on her feet. This was in the nightclub called the Milk and Honey. No shoes, I'm telling you. . . ."
"Milk and honey," said Abu. "That has become a hackneyed phrase, yet it remains viscerally appealing. Milk and honey. For some strange reason, a little poem."
The two men babbled away, unaware of the difference that their taste for tambourine music was going to make in their lives.
Ellen Cherry didn't care much for the band. Its high-pitched nasal buzz reminded her of a prehistoric busy signal. The Yemenite folk singer also failed to set her music gland to pumping, although she evidently stimulated something in him, as he was forever giving her long, smoldering looks. When he asked her for a date, she was tempted to accept. He was broodingly handsome, and as suspect as youthful melancholia always is, it's nonetheless superficially attractive. Yeah, but I know those Arabic types, she thought. He wouldn't be content to be my lover. After three dates he'd want to marry me and whisk me off to the Old Country, hide me behind a veil, make me eat the eyes of sheep.
After she turned him down, the gloom of his performances darkened by several shades. Lines such as, "Before I depart for battle, please allow me to

wipe my sobbing eyes on your embroidered sleeve," didn't have to be in English to cast their pall. Eventually, Spike and Abu let him go.
By April, they were on the verge of firing the band, as well, when the toothless geezer informed them that on the following Friday they would be joined by a "mostly very much beautiful" belly dancer who was "mostly very much excellently skilled" on the tambourine.
While an excited Spike was asking the old musician whether the woman would be shod or in bare feet, Abu, equally pleased if more subdued, fed Ellen Cherry a tidbit about how, during a period of musical inactivity enforced in the seventh century by Mohammed, approval was given only to the ghirbal and the tambourine, the latter without jingles, since the instrument with jingles was forbidden. "That is what the new religion did to Arabic culture," said Abu. "It left the drumbeats but took away our jingles."
"We Baptists don't jingle much, either," Ellen Cherry confided. "Except when we're passing the collection plate."
~
It's the third Friday in April. Spring lies on New York like an odalisque on a harem sofa. Like an AIDS baby on a Harlem sofa. A big moon is rising. Like the odalisque, the moon seems filled to overflowing with sweetmeats and sperm, but the haze through which it rises is emaciated, phlegm-choked, and dappled with sores that almost certainly are malignant. Everywhere, softness snuggles up to hardness. Hardness shrugs, says, "So what?"—rakes in a scum of dollars, jams foot-long needles into its vein. Tender green leaves are unfurling on thousands of soot-encrusted limbs. The acrid, Mephis-tophelian odor of vehicular exhaust stands out sharply against the chlorophyll. When a person breathes, one nostril sucks in a witchy waft of poisons, the other the syrup-scented push of plant life. In the mingle of moonlight and headlamps, neon and leaf-glow, the skyscrapers are as beautiful as a procession of Hindu saints. Bubbling, winking, and crawling with light, they seem as full of sap as the maples in the park.
Spilling from tenements and condominiums, from boutiques and bodegas, the anxious multitudes have found a new tempo, a pace in between the windup- toy frenzy of winter and the deep-sea diver drag of the humid summer to come. Crushing Styrofoam burger cartons, condom packs, hypodermic syringes, and graffiti-spewing spray cans underfoot, they almost dance as they walk, an

unconscious rite of spring in their steps, a forgotten memory of sod and seed and lamb and ring-around-the-rosy. The unfinished and unfinishable symphony to which they move is composed of salsa, rap, and funk from boom boxes, strains of Vivaldi sifting out in a silvery drizzle from fine restaurants and limousines, the sophisticated rhythms produced by Cole Porter's phantom cigarette holder tapping upon the vertebrae of tourists and businessmen in hotel lobbies throughout midtown, fey techno-rock in SoHo bars and art lofts, drum solos banged out on plastic pails and refrigerator trays by brilliant buskers, androgynous anchorpersons announcing the "news," a loud screeching of truck and bus wheels, an interminable red bawling of sirens, the tooting of taxis, an occasional gunshot or scream, girlish laughter, boyish boasts, barking dogs, the whine of aggressive beggars, the yowls of the unsheltered insane, and, on many a street comer, the greased-lung exhortations of evangelists, ordained or self- proclaimed, warning all who pass that this could be the last April that God will ever grant, as if April were a kitten and God an angry farmer with a sack.
By July, the air in New York will be pumped up on steroids: brutish biceps will flex in the lungs of everyone who inhales it, and against the cheeks of the sensitive it will rake like stubble. On this April evening, however, the atmosphere is plainly feminine. The smog wears lace, the breeze is wrapped in maternity cottons, and the jaded urbanites, winked at and cooed to, have let their defenses down. Just before dusk, a slide rule of Canadian geese engineers over Manhattan, giving traffic a honking lesson that nearly drains its batteries. The necks of millions crane as one to follow the flight of the geese, and when the flock fades into the haze, an ancient intoxication seizes the collective brain. Everyone now is mildly drunk on wild goose wine.
Ellen Cherry senses the feminine wildness in the streets even before she leaves her apartment. From the eleventh floor of the Ansonia, neon signs look like smears of wet lipstick, and the jumbled noise that bounces up from Broadway has an underlying purr. Into the usual Friday night mix of commerce and culture, romance and crime, luxury and filth, there's been stirred bud nectar, moon malt, and goose grog: Ellen Cherry can taste it when she cracks the window. She opens the window wider and takes a larger gulp. It's a night of promise, a night when something delirious could happen, and suddenly she can't wait to get out into it.
"New York's swallowed a tambourine," she says. She knows nothing about tambourines beyond what she's recently been told, but she's aware that this untamed female music box is scheduled to ring out tonight at Isaac & Ishmael's,

where she'll be working the late shift, nine until three. As it turns out, her metaphor is apt, though she has forgotten it completely by the time she returns to the entryway closet to hang up the coat that she's decided she won't be needing (the extent to which the release from bulky winter clothing has contributed to the city's light new mood should not be underestimated).
The instant that Ellen Cherry leaves the room, there's unprecedented movement in the underwear drawer. The drawer is slightly ajar, and Spoon, too, has felt the tug and promise of the April night.
Daruma watches her. She's shaking like a coke addict at a job interview. Upright, balanced on the tip of her handle, she periodically leaps in the air to a height where she can peer briefly over the lip of the drawer. She leaps, hesitates, trembles. Leaps, hesitates, trembles.
"Kamikaze," whispers the vibrator.
"Kamikaze?"
"Divine wind."
She leaps, hesitates, trembles. "Divine wind?"
"Go," he says. "Go with wind. Go for broke. Nothing to lose. Go!" Spoon goes.
Soundlessly, she lands on the bedroom rug. Rolls over. Looks around. Bounds toward the purse that Ellen Cherry has left on the floor by the door.
The last thing she hears as she dives down deep among the keys and change, Kleenex and Boomer letters, post-Jezebelian cosmetics and tattered old magazine photographs of Georgia O'Keeffe, is the joyful lunatic laughter of the heathen dildo.
The average woman's purse weighs approximately one kilo. The average woman's heart weighs nine ounces. The weight of a tambourine falls somewhere in between, a little closer to the heart than the handbag.
When Ellen Cherry returns to the bedroom, she snatches up her purse and rummages in it. Several times her right hand, the hand with the exiled wedding band, brushes against the spoon or pushes the spoon aside, without taking notice of it. Can a woman who does not know the contents of her handbag know the contents of her heart?
Ellen Cherry removes her keys, two subway tokens, and a vial of lip gloss. She secures these items in the flap pocket of her yellow jersey dress, the Betsey Johnson dress with the outsize zipper, and drops the purse on the bed. She is

going to travel light on this spring-drunk night. Apparently, Spoon won't be traveling at all.
Spoon waits in the purse until she's positive that Ellen Cherry is out of the building. Then she squirms free, much to the envy of a plastic rain cap that's been pining away for years in the bottom of the bag. "She'll never w-wear me," sobs the rain cap. "I won't f-fit over all that h-hair."
"Patience, dear," Spoon counsels. "As my friend Can o' Beans says, 'the world is a very strange place, and the dice are always rolling.' "
After quoting the bean can, she would feel like a hypocrite climbing back in the underwear drawer. In truth, she feels hypocritical anyhow, advising patience at a time when she has lost much of hers. As the millennium winds down, are certain inanimate objects growing increasingly and uncharacteristically impatient? she wonders. And if so, is it a religious thing, or is it secular?
Spoon surveys the room. Moonrays are driving through the window like a fleet of white Cadillacs. Impulsively, she hops from the bed to the windowsill. "Oh my. Oh dear," she gasps. She's equally enchanted and terrified. Below her, far, far below her, the hard streets, surprised by April, are pulsating in a seizure of color and sound. The warm air washes over her like luxurious dishwaters she has known. The lights of the city ripple over her as well, enlivening her classic contours, giving her a different sort of bath. The cacophony disorients her. The height makes her freeze. She's a motionless star in a spinning sky.
"Kamikaze!"
"Pardon, sir?"
Spoon turns to hear what the vibrator is calling to her from the drawer and,
in so doing, slips and goes sliding off the ledge into the vast, noisy void.
Does an object's life flash before it as it falls? Had not Galileo been an animate chauvinist, he might have addressed that question in his experiments at Pisa. On the other hand, it may be absurd to suggest that something inanimate, inorganic, has a "life" to flash. But what is it, then, that Spoon is seeing as she hurtles toward the pavement?
She falls past rough bowls carved from the wood of fever trees and decorated with images of pregnant beasts; past saucers of tortoise-shell, and compotiers fashioned from maidens' skulls with alphabets hidden in their cheeks. Most assuredly, Spoon has never dipped custards from vessels such as these.

She falls past a black rooster tied to a bedpost, past a lizard and a robin drinking from the same ancient puddle, past brightly painted acorns, peyote furniture, and chandeliers dripping with the fat of igloo candles. In all of her travels from coast to coast, Spoon had never seen those things.
She is falling not through her own brain, as humans do, but through the room of the wolfmother wallpaper, and shreds of the wallpaper flap against her as she plunges. From a great distance, she thinks she can hear Conch Shell trumpeting her name. Then, it's over. . . .
When she lands, it's not with the hideous clang she expects but with a thunk. She bounces off something comparatively soft, puts a dent in it, makes an arc, and smacks the sidewalk at less than half the speed she was previously traveling. Several drops of blood land beside her.
Had Raoul Ritz been wearing his porkpie hat, it would have absorbed much of the blow. His manager in Los Angeles considers the hat a dorky item, however, and has talked him into forsaking it, at least in public. When he approaches the Ansonia, intent on informing Ellen Cherry that the song he'd written for her (and which had enjoyed limited airplay on a couple of New York stations) is about to be released nationally, his bean is unfortunately bare.
Gripping his head with both hands, Raoul circles himself erratically, like a bat with jammed sonar, caroms off a corner of the Ansonia, and collapses. Pepe, the new doorman, comes out to see what's going on, finds Raoul unconscious on the sidewalk, and dials 911. Spoon's instincts are to scoot for cover, but a small crowd has gathered.
By the time an ambulance and a patrol car arrive, Raoul's lights are back on, and he's sitting upright. There's a detective in the patrol car, being driven from a homicide scene. "What hit him?" Detective Shaftoe asks.
"Spoon," replies a witness. "This spoon here fell down on him."
"No kidding?" Shaftoe takes the utensil from the witness, examines it. It's solid silver, heavy for its size. "Fell or was thrown?"
The witness shrugs. Shaftoe steps out in the street where he can see all the way to the top of the Ansonia. Only one window is open on that side of the building. The detective counts the window rows to determine the floor. He's a short, muscular man, black of skin and white of hair, with falcon eyes and a nose that's been broken more often than a seducer's promises. He's played his share of football, though at considerable distance from the Super Bowl. "Who lives in that apartment?" he asks Pepe, pointing to the open window.

"Not sure. I think it be Miz Charl."
"Miz Charl," repeats Raoul. They're the first words he's spoken, and they sound as if they've been strained through an old nun's bloomers. The medics try to convince Raoul to go to the hospital for an examination, but he argues against it. The police are consulted.
"He's a tough mother," says Shaftoe. "Let him be. You want to waste Bellevue's time and taxpayers' money photographing the inside of that head? Besides, he don't want word to get around he's been knocked on his ass by a itty- bitty spoon." Shaftoe grins, and so do some of the bystanders.
"You got a key to that unit?" Shaftoe asks Pepe. "Good. I'm going up." He turns to Raoul, who's now on his feet. "You want to come along?"
Raoul nods his headache. "Yeah, man, I better go wit' you. Miz Charl so mad I go to L.A. and not fuck her, she throw her kitchen stuff at me, man."
"That a fact?" asks Shaftoe.
"I don't think she home," says Pepe. "She go to work twenty minute ago." "You sure it was twenty?"
Pepe is right, nobody's in the apartment. "It didn't have to come from this
unit," says Shaftoe. "They could've shut their window." Raoul seems disappointed, especially after the detective checks the kitchen drawers and finds no silverware that matches the piece that hit him.
They're about to leave when Shaftoe, who paints on Sundays in Central Park, turns one of Ellen Cherry's canvases around. He wants to see how her work compares. When a portrait of a spoon—a spoon identical to the one in his hand —is exposed, he emits a long, dry whistle and helps himself to a seat on the sofa.
On the way to Isaac & IshmaePs, the patrolman at the wheel says, "I don't get it. Guy gets clipped with a teaspoon, don't even require stitches, and you're conducting an investigation."
"Something . . . unusual here," says Shaftoe. "Something weird."
"Hey, this is New York, sergeant, not some jerkwater Ohio. Besides, everything's got a simple explanation, even in this town. Broad leaves a spoon on a windowsill, it slips off, clips a guy. So she and the guy know each other? Coincidence."
"What about all the paintings of this baby?" asks Shaftoe, waving the spoon. "And what about the paintings of bean cans? What if some guy gets brained with a bean can next? Some guy she's pissed at 'cause he didn't ball her? Right, buddy?"

In the backseat, Raoul shrugs, touches his head tenderly.
"Yeah, well, there was socks, too," says the cop. "She can't brain nobody with no sock. Anyway, she was at work."
"And where is it the lady works? The most dangerous restaurant in New York. Joint that's mixed up in all kinds of heavy Middle Eastern political shit. No, I tell you, there's big ... unusualness here. There's something in the air."
"Spring," says the cop.
Shaftoe says nothing, he just keeps rubbing his fingers over the spoon. Were a genie to pop out of it, his first wish would be to know the spoon's story. No, no, he isn't that much of a detective. His first wish would be to play ball again. Second wish: maybe world peace, maybe a cure for AIDS. Third . . . aw, it doesn't matter. He glances over his shoulder. "This lady, Miss Charles, what's she like?"
"She a artist, man," says Raoul.
"No shit."
In front of the I & I, the driver lets the detective and Raoul out of the car.
"You wearing a vest?" he asks.
"Naw," says Shaftoe, tapping his shirtfront. "I'll have to dodge 'em. I hear
the food sucks, too."
Entering Isaac & Ishmael's, the bar is to the left, dining area to the right.
They're separated by a low, bamboo-covered partition, maybe a yard high. The bandstand, as it were, is at the rear of the barroom but is completely visible—and audible—to those in the dining room. Teddy, the maître d', seats Detective Sergeant Shaftoe and Raoul Ritz in the dining area since it's practically empty while the less spacious bar is nearly full. Ellen Cherry's section is toward the front of the bar, so not only does she not wait on Shaftoe and Raoul, but they have to turn their heads in order to see her.
"Man, she looking fine," says Raoul.
"That's some kind of hair," marvels Shaftoe.
Their attention is directed to the bandstand, upon which a very young
woman has just received a curt, perfunctory introduction from the bandleader. When the band strikes up again, the girl administers her tambourine a resounding whack and begins to dance. Instantly, Shaftoe knows what his third wish would be. Raoul's headache leaves through his mouth, which has fallen open. Every conversation in the I & I ceases, many in midsentence. The audience is transfixed. Some men raise a hand to clutch at their hearts, but most are paralyzed, pinned like butterflies to a wall of passion. Cooks and

dishwashers are drawn out of the kitchen, security guards desert their posts on the sidewalk. The tambourine bangs, the tambourine jingles; the girl— awkwardly, self-consciously—dances, and the audience senses the weight, the weave, the odor of an ancient blanket that has been thrown over it, perhaps the blanket upon which Abraham spread the legs of Sarai and Hagar.
The night has cooled, as April nights will, but by the time the dance is done, the I & I is awash in sweat. Men applaud, pause to wipe their brows, applaud some more. They whistle and stamp their feet. It's been awhile since Shaftoe has experienced such a quickening of the loins. Raoul is muttering aloud in Spanish, something to the effect of, "I write a song for her, man. I write ten songs." Raoul has forgotten all about Ellen Cherry. So have the Greeks and Syrians, the Turks and Algerians, the Cypriots, Kuwaitis, and Israelis who've been flirting with her for months, and from among whom she's been expecting, despite her ethnic prejudices, to choose a lover in the near future.
Ellen Cherry must intuit her abandonment, for when a sweat-soaked Abu and a wild-eyed Spike ask her, in breathless succession, "What do you think of that tambourine girl?" and "So what're you thinking of our little Salome?", she pokes out her lower lip so far she could set a potted plant on it and replies, "Her legs are skinny. For a belly dancer, she's sure got skinny legs."
*
In a minute or two, the music starts up again, and once more the I & I is transformed into a savage sexual steam bath by the bashful young dancer, skinny legs and all. Absentmindedly, Shaftoe removes the spoon from the pocket of his K mart sport coat and drums out a rhythm with it on a bamboo place mat. Spoon is mortified. So shamed is she by the indecent display that she fails to recognize the room as the place where she and Ellen Cherry were reunited five months prior, and she finds herself wishing she had been broken to bits by the fall from the window ledge. She's taken the advice of a depraved, heathenish instrument of onanistic pleasure, and this is where it's led her. The dancer, abdomen jiggling, buttocks rotating, executes a leaf shimmy followed by a double hip bump. Shaftoe rat-a-tats Spoon against his beer glass. "Oh, dear!" she cries. "Mother Mary, release me."
Spoon's prayer is answered. The patrolman enters the I & I, pushes Teddy aside, and strides up to Shaftoe. He speaks into the detective's cauliflower ear. "Captain wants you uptown fast as you can get there." Shaftoe grumbles, slaps five dollars on the table, and backs out of the restaurant, his eyes pasted to Salome. He hasn't wasted any breath offering Raoul a lift.

Once outside, the patrolman says, "When I told the captain where you was, he like to had a stroke. When I told him what you was doing in there, I could hear the dispatcher giving him CPR."
Shaftoe spits. "Motherfucker see what I've seen tonight, it'd take more than CPR to revive his ass."
Reluctantly, Shaftoe turns his back on the I & I, follows his driver around the corner to Forty-ninth, where their car is parked. He pauses at a litter basket. Pensively, he looks from the spoon to the basket and back again. He shakes his head, shoves the spoon in his pocket. He's walked only a couple of steps, however, when he stops again, removes the household article, inspects it one more time in the moonshine. When he sighs, it's as if he's been taken out of another game, as if something in his sighing mechanism remembers the fumble that ended his tryout with the Buffalo Bills. He tosses Spoon in the trash.
The cop has watched all this. "Forget about it, sergeant," he says. "There's a million stories in the Naked City."
*
It's the third Friday in April, and the moon is setting. When the moon goes, the odalisque goes with it. They take their minty ambrosias, their odes, their hormones, their honker chardonnay. (Soon, present tense will follow them.) They leave the AIDS baby to shiver in the hard, sharp air. The buds on the trees, the vagabonds and cripples in the streets shiver, too.
Salome quits dancing at midnight. "She is just sixteen," the bandleader explains. Spike offers to drive her home, but she's already left, by the way of the rear courtyard that the I & I shares with the East Indian restaurant next door. The band plays on until two, although long before then the crowd dwindles to practically nothing.
"You see?" says Abu. "Everybody prefers the tambourine."
"Right," says Ellen Cherry. "Tambourine." She, too, departs via the courtyard, thus missing Raoul, who, having failed to locate Salome outside, returns to the restaurant to at last inform Ellen Cherry of his song, his desire, the lump on his head.
It doesn't take Ellen Cherry long to regret her coatless condition. Deciding that the night is too chilly and too dark for her to walk to the subway station, she hails a taxi. As the cab pulls away, Raoul staggers out of the I & I. "The little tambourine lady will be back here tomorrow night," Abu calls after him.
Raoul spins to glare at the tall, distinguished Arab. "Man, I'll be in fucking L.A., man," he says, with considerable irritation.

At the Ansonia, Pepe has gone off duty, leaving Ellen Cherry no word of the early evening's excitement and how it involved her apartment. Therefore, she's astonished, and a trifle frightened, when she enters to find most of her paintings staring her right in the eye. For some reason, perhaps having to do with the promise of spring, she suspects that it is Boomer who's been in her apartment. There's nothing vandalized or missing, and who except Boomer, or maybe Ultima Sommervell, is curious about her work?
She's wrong, of course, about there being nothing missing. After she's decided that even if Boomer has come home unexpectedly from Jerusalem, even if he's been by to spy on her art, she isn't likely to be seeing him that night; after she's showered off the smoke and grease from the I & I and applied moisturizing lotion to her face and body, she opens the top drawer of her dresser and reaches for her vibrator. All that horniness at the I & 1 tonight must have rubbed off on me, she thinks.
When she notices that the spoon is not where she left it, where she saw it only hours before, her spinal column draws as tight as Euclid's jockstrap, and a tropical hotel could cool its rooms with her blood.
It has been estimated that during the course of a lifetime, a person spends one year searching for lost objects. Ellen Cherry suspected that she could use up her allotted year and still not find that spoon, but she looked anyway. In a state of near panic, she didn't know what else to do. It took so little time to ransack the apartment that she ransacked it twice.
She struggled into a silk kimono—her goose bumps were so huge that the kimono barely covered them—and took the elevator to the lobby, glancing over her shoulder all the while and jumping at every sound and shadow. She dialed a number that she'd sworn she would never call, and experienced nausea when she heard it ringing in Ultima Sommervell's townhouse.
"Yes?" In the background, faint barking noises could be detected.
"Sorry. This is Ellen Cherry Charles. Can you just tell me if Boomer's back in town?"
"My dear, it's four bloody A.M. You must have had an upsetting dream. No, no, unfortunately he's not. As a matter of fact, I'm flying to Israel on Monday to persuade him to return. He's becoming another Jean-Michel Basquiat, foolishly sabotaging his own success."
"He's not back?"
"You don't sound well. Perhaps you should take something."

"Thanks. Sorry." She hung up and immediately phoned Spike Cohen. "So sorry to bother you at this hour, Mr. Cohen. This will probably sound silly to you, but there's been somebody in my apartment and ..."
As the story spaghettied out of her, it did, indeed, strike Spike as rather silly. Nevertheless, he was quick to comfort and humor her. "Don't worry, darlink. Right away I'll be there. If it's a dybbuk what is haunting you, I know what can chase it out."
By the time Ellen Cherry found dybbuk in the dictionary—she wasted ten minutes looking under the di's—Spike arrived at the Ansonia bearing a copy of the Ninety-first Psalm and a quart of rum. She had already admitted him when she realized that she was wearing her thin, flowered kimono and nothing else except a rapidly evaporating layer of moisturizer. She tried to appear nonchalant, he tried not to stare.
"To get rid of your demon I have to read aloud the Ninety-first Psalm. If that doesn't do the trick, then I got to blow the shofar, the ram's horn. The shofar works every time. Oy! Too bad a shofar I don't have, so I'm bringing a bottle of rum instead." "Mr. Cohen, you don't really think there's a dybbuk involved. ..." He smiled. His teeth were even, and as white as laundry flakes. "No, no," he said. "Of course not. No self-respecting dybbuk would bother a shiksa. But it's a lovely psalm, and the rum is also nice."
Spike poured them each three fingers of dark Bacardi. "Now," he said, sitting down opposite her, "you tell me about this spoon what is going and coming, going and coming."
As Ellen Cherry was relating the facts of the matter, Spoon, herself, was gathering the courage to peer out from the sheet of dirty newsprint in which she had concealed herself. It happened to be the editorial page of a New York newspaper. The lead editorial defended the stockpiling of poison gas, chemical bombs, and long-range missiles by both sides in the Middle Eastern conflict on the grounds that if the arsenals were equal in size and capability, they would cancel each other out. It went so far as to quote the unforgettable logic of Henry Kissinger: "We have to have more missiles in order to get rid of missiles." Spoon wasn't cognizant of the paper's content. She was too occupied with hiding under it to read it (even if she could read), just as none but the most conscionable human beings ever question the true nature of the institutions that are theoretically protecting them.
Ascertaining that Forty-ninth Street was empty, she squirmed to the top of

the trash basket and leaned against its rim. Up and down the street she gazed, wondering in what direction St. Patrick's lay and at what distance. It was awhile before she realized that she was chanting in the manner of that unspeakable device.and his lingerie disciples, except that instead of "Wooga go nami ne," Spoon was endlessly repeating, "Oh dear oh dear oh dear oh dear." She hushed herself—and then immediately cried, "Oh dear." What was that coming down the street?
It resembled a wheel, turning so rapidly that it was no more than a rolling blur. As it whirled closer, Spoon could make out that which an organic eye was probably incapable of perceiving: the blur was Painted Stick.
Had the intoxicant vagrancies of the spring night aggravated the stick's restlessness and lured it, at no slight risk, out of hiding and into the streets? Spoon had been gone for five months, and while in ordinary object time that span was the briefest of moments, neither these objects nor their circumstances were ordinary. It was well known among them that Painted Stick was anxious to strike out for Jerusalem by whatever means. He was contemptuous of this land, America; convinced that not one of its citizens, with the possible exception of Turn Around Norman, was wise enough in the ways of the universe to facilitate his return to Jerusalem. How could they be when they were stupefied by a violent fear of Yahweh and corrupted by a violent love of money? If Conch Shell was more tolerant, more resigned than he, it was the shell, nonetheless, that, in league with the full moon, had influenced his flight from the cathedral.
Conch Shell had spent that third Friday in April—the day that spring tickled New York with the hardest of feathers—lying on her side on the ledge gazing through the grate. Long after Norman had completed his last revolution, she continued to gaze. Or, maybe she wasn't gazing at all. The conch shell is the bride of Taurus, the sea-bull who surfaces each and every April to water the earth with his translucent semen; she is the bull's herald, trumpeting his arrival, softening and arousing the land so that it might open up and receive his vital emissions. It's conceivable, then, that Conch Shell was in direct communication with something in the season that New Yorkers vaguely sensed but couldn't begin to identify. Certainly, the aura she broadcast was both wider and pinker than Can o' Beans had seen it in a great while. "Miss Shell seems to be in deep longing," he/she commented to Dirty Sock. "Poignant reverie."
"So that's what they call it at Bean Can College," said the sock. "Do tell? What do you smarty-pants call what's bugging our buddy here? If he weren't a

stick his own self, I'd say he had a stick up his butt."
The sock's ill-bred diagnosis was accurate to the extent that Painted Stick
seemed more rigid than usual. For long periods, he would stand upright, perfectly still, on the basement floor below Conch Shell, looking up at her. That would be followed by equally long periods during which he would march to and fro, like a military commander awaiting news from the front. It went on in that fashion for hours, until, late in the night, or more precisely, early in the morning after the moon had set and human activity had flagged, the stick hopped up on the ledge beside the gastropodous undine and announced that he was going to the sea. Before Conch Shell's protests could fully form, he was past her, forcing his way through the grate. A tight squeeze, the maneuver cost him a third of his remaining paint. Tiny shavings, colored by hands that had been dead three thousand years, peeled away and joined the soot and grit on the city sidewalk. Painted Stick took no notice, but moved brazenly to the curb and made a fix on the stars. When he was satisfied as to the location of the ocean, he set out for it at once, turning end over end at a speed that he hoped might render him barely visible to the human eye. When he had traveled several blocks without detection, a familiar, exultant power gripped him, and he wondered why he hadn't attempted this before.
Painted Stick didn't make it to the sea. The East River got in his way. For more than an hour, he perched on the revetment, about a hundred and fifty yards from Isaac & Ishmael's, studying the current of the river and the shipping upon it. There would be a harbor downstream, obviously, and the open Atlantic beyond, but how far he couldn't reckon. Still, it was in reach, and he was determined to lead his group there in the hope that they might stow away on a ship bound for Israel. Those modern vessels passing in the night were massive compared to the Phoenician boat in which he'd been transported to America, although they seemed slower in the water and not nearly as beautiful. The good news was, there would surely be places aboard to hide.
Shortly after four in the morning, the stick, turning like a vertical propeller, began retracing its route. It was only a short way up the street numbered forty- nine when it "heard" the timid, breathy "voice" of the American spoon "calling" its name. Painted Stick didn't show surprise, he wasn't the type, but Spoon could discern his excitement by all of the questions that he asked. She had never known him to be this effusive.
"Oh, sir, just help me get back to the cathedral," she pleaded. "There'll be

plenty time for explanation. Are the others still there? Can o' Beans?"
Painted Stick sent her on ahead. "You locomote slowly and can be easily
intercepted. Just proceed at the supreme limits of your speed, stay in the gutter close to the curb, and know that I shall be guarding your flank."
Indeed, that is the manner in which they ventured forth: Spoon scuttling along in the gutter between parked cars and the curb, Painted Stick half a block behind, on the sidewalk, whirling rapidly for the invisibility that was in it, but holding his forward progress in check. It seemed a workable system, but they hadn't gotten far before there was a crisis.
The door of the Mel Davis Dog Boutique flew open, and a man in a T-shirt and jeans ran out. He was laden with dog collars, some studded with diamonds, others with rubies that glowed red under the streetlamp like the hypodermic wounds in his arms. He dashed to the curb as if to meet an accomplice in a vehicle and instantly spotted Spoon scurrying by. Instinctively, he squatted for a closer look, visions of an expensive remote-control toy in his mind. Spoon scuttled on. The burglar sought to pin her down by placing his foot on her. A torn, dirty sneaker was in the process of pressing her to the pavement when Painted Stick whirled up, rammed the fellow forcefully in the groin, then, as he doubled over in pain, poked him in both eyes. He toppled and rolled into the gutter, bejeweled dog collars strewn about him like trinkets about a pharoah's mummy.
Never before had Painted Stick struck a human being. No other inanimate object, to the best of his knowledge, had, deliberately and of its own volition, struck a man. He felt as if he had committed a grave transgression, had violated fundamental rules of separation and domain, and that there might be dire consequences. What if a precedent had been established? What if he had rent somehow the fabric of universal order? At the same time that he, in dread and guilt, questioned the ethics of his rash deed, he felt empowered by it. He realized now that no person could safely impede his progress were he to lead his comrades to the sea.
It was a troubled but confident stick and a hysterically jittery spoon that continued down East Forty-ninth Street. But though the crossing of Lexington Avenue proved tricky—and nearly calamitous— they reached St. Patrick's ahead of the dawn.
~

"Surely he shall deliver theefrom the fowler's snare and from the deadly pestilence.
He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thoufind refuge;"
The Ninety-first Psalm was dramatic and long, and Spike Cohen read it with quiet majesty. Ellen Cherry found herself thinking of how Buddy Winkler would have hammed it up. By the third verse, however, she had ceased to listen. Maybe it was the rum, maybe it was the hour, but she drifted into an involuntary eye game, optically mixing the patterns and hues of Spike's clothing—the salad- green V-neck sweater, the violet and white polka-dotted shirt, the plum and olive windowpane plaid suit—until she felt as if she were being pistol-whipped with a kaleidoscope. As she continued to play, she remembered a previous game, the one that her eyes had played with the spoon, and how it had made her aware of another level of reality, a level, a layer that consensual reality veiled. That experience had had the effect of making the world seem larger to her. Yet, simultaneously more private.
In general, this whole business with the spoon had provided her with a secret point of reference outside the everyday order of things. It was like Turn Around Norman had been, only more personal. Spike had spent a quarter hour sweetly assuring her that there was a rational, simple explanation for the spoon's appearance and disappearance, and that someday that which had seemed mysterious would wax mundane. Now, it occurred to her, in that event, she would feel cheated. Wasn't there a surplus in life of the boring, the repetitive, the mediocre, and the tame? Shouldn't she be glad, grateful for this intrusion of the unexpected and unexplained? And if she never understood it, why, so much the better. The surprise and shock of the extraordinary, even when embodied in so small a happening as the riddle around the spoon, could be a tonic, a syrup of wahoo, and she found herself wishing a dose—dangerous side effects be damned — for everyone she knew.
"With long life shall I satisfy him and show him my salvation."
Finished, Spike looked up from the page to see a grin cross Ellen Cherry's face like the chicken crossing the road, although the grin more closely resembled the fireman's red suspenders. "Hoo boy," he said. "Maybe a dybbuk I've chased out of you, after all. Didn't I tell you it's a swell psalm?" He emptied his glass of

its rum. "And the surrogate shofar what I brought is useful also, ha?"
Ellen Cherry consulted her glass, and giggled.
"So, you relax now, ha? You can be getting some sleep. Dream of beautiful
things, except no wandering silverware, okay? What is this spoon, Jewish or something?" Spike got up from his chair, as if to exit. He glanced around the room. "Some other day maybe you can show me these pictures what some gonif is stealing into your apartment to monkey with."
"Okay, maybe someday I will." She felt a tad guilty that she hadn't at least shown him the paintings of the spoon, since they apparently were involved in some way with the utensil's departure. Holding her kimono closed around her, she, too, arose. "Right now, though," she said, a whoopee cushion of mischief in her tone, "I think I'd rather show you some shoes."
"Shoes?" Spike asked innocently, as if the subject of footwear was an alien motif.
"Uh-huh. I always wear flats to work, you've hardly ever seen my prime- time heels. I mean, hey, I'm no Imelda, but I've got three or four pair that could loot the treasury of a Third World country and make the natives say thank you. My hot pink Kenneth Cole ribbon pumps could fleece Manila in an hour."
Taken unawares, Spike didn't quite know how to respond. "I recall some red Cassinis what you wore to our reopening," he said. His tone and manner were meek.
"Right. Those shoes could burn, but they couldn't pillage. Let me show you a pair that takes no prisoners." Ellen Cherry knocked back a slug of rum and vanished into her bedroom closet. When she reappeared, she was holding out in front of her, as if they were twin holy grails, a pair of pumps that seemed to have been fashioned from passion fruit and monkey entrails knotted together in posh bows; with cut-out insteps, ribbon ties, and spool heels, wider at the ends than in the middle. "Ta-da," she said, softly and without emphasis. "Now aren't these the shoes estrogen would wear if estrogen had feet? I call the color 'neon fox tongue,' but that's another story."
"Oy, such a show! Very girly, very— I got friends, to be honest, what would complain these shoes are ongepotchket: overdone, garish, a mish-mosh, but me I like them." Spike stepped back a step or two. "Yah, I think they suit you. They got ... Hard to tell when you're just holding them up. Can you ..." He hesitated, and there was a subtle but discernible increase in the volume and velocity of his breath. "Can you maybe try them on?"

She smiled again and looked him over. She had acquaintances (at that point in her life she really had no friends) who would complain that he was ongepotchket, if they could define or pronounce it, but the artist in her approved of sartorial excess, and the woman in her saw past it. Still smiling, she said, "I'll be right back."
In her closet, she put on the shoes. And took off the kimono.
Her worry that Spike might be flustered, shocked, even repulsed, proved groundless. In the thirty years since his wife had decamped, he'd lain only with prostitutes, Upper West Side call girls, to be exact, so when Ellen Cherry appeared in the bedroom doorway naked—"nekkid," rather—except for the Kenneth Cole shoes, he responded in a direct, systematic, and no-nonsense manner. Well, there was some nonsense, but it came later. And for the moment, she was completely content to dispense with conversation and foreplay. They just weren't necessary.
With the same fluid motions with which he was said by Abu to serve a tennis ball and then backhand its return, Spike removed his clothing, every last ongepotchket of it. Then he led her to the bed, laid her down, spread her legs (to which the pink pumps were still affixed), and gracefully mounted her.
The cries of her initial orgasm resounded in the room almost immediately. In her underwear drawer, the panties tittered knowingly and teased Master Daruma, who rejoined with sagacity, "On hairy caterpillar there are many beads of dew."
In the comparative lull that followed her second climax, a time when he was stoking her with slow but by no means dispassionate efficiency, and when, coasting, she was studying the dawn light reflected in the perspiration on his seesawing shoulder blades, she experienced a jab of guilt. Considering events of the past two years, it was absurdly irrational; yet there it was, a southern feminine conditioned reflex, handicapping her emotions and tarnishing the shine of her physical joy. Ah, but then she happened to remember that Ultima was flying to Jerusalem on Monday, and she returned to the fuck with renewed zeal.
She clasped his buttocks in her hands and pushed against him, not to force him into her more deeply—he was already in so deep she could almost taste him —but to give him more of her, to grant him as much of her pussy as was anatomically possible, without reservation, privacy, or shame. Great sea mammal sounds began to issue from them both: a groaning against the heavy pressure of the ocean, a squirty opening of mollusk shells, a slapping of wet flippers, an

exhalation of salty and humid vapors, a blubberous explosion of moby dick. Did she recoil when he withdrew to rub himself against her feet? Au
contraire. Nor did she flinch when she felt the hot trickle between her toes or complain that he had transformed one of her chic new shoes into a gravy boat. No, Ellen Cherry in time would have some unusual requirements of her own, and she could tell that dear Spike Cohen was just the man to fulfill them.
She awoke at noon feeling that her luck had changed. Undoubtedly, it was a matter of attitude. When a person accepts a broader definition of reality, a broader net is cast upon the waters of fortune.
Sure enough, around one that afternoon, after she and Spike had taken another dolphin ride, the day doorman came to her apartment with an envelope that had been delivered by messenger. There was a check inside, and a note scribbled on rose paper with violet ink:
Forgot to mention last night (rather, this morning) that your remaining picture sold. To a Corning collector this time. My dear, they love you in the provinces! Upon my return from ghastly Jerusalem, you simply must fetch me over some new work.
"Maybe I will, Ultima baby," said Ellen Cherry, scratching her bottom with simian luxury. "Maybe I will."
Spike departed to meet Abu for tennis, whistling like a parakeet in a marijuana field, and she fell back asleep to dream of whitecapped waves. Probably they were sexual rather than creative waves, but later she recalled that just before she woke, a brush in her brain added a touch of naples yellow (patron saint of Neapolitan chain-smokers) to keep the whites from being stark.
Serpent à sonnettes. Rattelslang. Culebra de cascabel. Skallerorm. Klapperschlange. Rattlesnake.
Walking past the makeshift bandstand on her way to the kitchen to hang up her light jacket (she wasn't about to repeat the chilly mistake of the previous night), Ellen Cherry's foot accidentally brushed against Salome's tambourine. It jingled and whirred, causing her instinctively to jump to one side, as if she had transgressed upon one of those vipers that vibrate their tails when disturbed. Abu witnessed this and laughed aloud.
Serpent à sonnettes Rattelslang

Culebra de cascabel Skallerorm Klapperschlange Rattlesnake
Separately or all together: musical. A little poem.
By mutual consent, Ellen Cherry and Spike intended to conceal the fresh facet that the diamond cutters of destiny had cleaved into their relationship. They studiously avoided giving each other meaningful glances, nor did they touch or smile when they passed. To further avert suspicion, Ellen Cherry planned to pay extra attention to Abu that evening whenever opportunity allowed. The attack by the tambourine gave her the first excuse. Patsy's phone call gave her the second.
Since there still wasn't a phone in her Ansonia apartment, Ellen Cherry's parents called her, sometimes as often as once a week, at Isaac & Ishmael's. Out of consideration for customers (in the past, that had been wishful thinking, if not a joke), they usually phoned early, just as she was beginning her shift.
"Mercy me, you're sounding bright-eyed and bushy-tailed."
"I am?" Ellen Cherry was disappointed that her supposedly secret glee was so blatantly evident.
"Lord, yes, you are, honey. Now tell me: couldn't be ol' Boomer's back in town, could it?"
"Why, no, mama, he's not. Where'd you get that idea?"
"It wasn't any idea. Just a stab in the dark, that's all. Wondering what'd tipped your giggle box on its side. Leave it to ol' prefeminist Patsy to think there was a blessed man involved." Patsy paused. "Actually, I was kinda hoping Boomer was back over here. For more reasons than one."
"And why is that?" Ellen Cherry asked, mainly to be polite. For the first time in many months, attracting that idiot welder to her side was not a top priority for her.
" 'Cause," said Patsy. " 'Cause your uncle Buddy, as you've always known him, is fixing to go to Jerusalem. Leaving on Monday. Honey, I think he's getting ready to pull off that deal he was talking 'bout at Christmas time. You know, that, uh, Dome of the Rock deal?"
"Yes, mama, I know what you're speaking of. Mr. Hadee says it would touch off a world war."
"I don't know about that, but Bud told your daddy that he wants to strike at the mosque during some big religious festival that's coming up, I believe, next

month. He said that the Temple Mount would be really crowded then, so his 'strike' would have more of an impact."
"More people killed or hurt is how that translates. Makes my blood boil."
"I wasn't intending to spoil your good mood. I know you and Bud have fussed over this before. I just thought maybe you should get hold of Boomer someway, and, uh, I guess talk some sense to him or something, 'cause I'll bet dollars to doughnuts that Bud's fixing to try to get Boomer mixed up in it."
"I can't imagine Boomer getting involved. He can be a jerk, but he's not vicious. He's not quite the redneck he pretends to be."
"Well, just the same ..."
"I'll think about it, mama. I'll give it some serious thought. How're you? How's Daddy? Aside from consorting with Baptist terrorists."
"Oh, we're pretty fine. Verlin's back's bothering him. Claimed he strained it frogging the other night, but I think it's from always setting in front of that blessed television watching ball games. Sets all scrunched down in his chair, like a hound dog passing peach pits. I've tried to get him to work out with me once in a while, but he just snorts. If he saw it was a Jane Fonda tape I was working out to, he'd holler real good. He says women exercising is just like women wearing makeup, they only do it to seduce men. Huh! I had plans of being a professional dancer once." Patsy sighed. "Then that got all shot to pieces." She sighed again.
"Mama, don't. Please don't get misty on me."
"I gave up my dancing 'cause a man loved me so much he didn't want me to dance. My daughter gives up her painting 'cause a man— I ought to shut my big mouth. I don't rightly know why you gave up your painting—"
"I don't either."
"—but I wish you'd get back to it."
"I may do that. I truly may. And you could resume dancing, too. No, I'm
serious, mama. You could. You're only a little past forty, in good shape. Sure, they say that dancing's only for young women, but, hey, that's somebody else's rules, not yours. One thing the eye game has taught me, and I guess Boomer also contributed, is that you've got to toss your own salad or else eat with the masses from their narrow trough."
"Then why don't you come down here and help me toss? We could all use us a different set of rules 'round Colonial Pines. It's lovely, though. You remember how lovely Virginia is in the spring."
Mother and daughter exchanged commentaries on the weather, and then Ellen Cherry excused herself. She had to report for duty. Patsy's cheerful nature

had resurfaced by the time they hung up, although it worried her that her daughter was once again referring to some funny business regarding a spoon. Ellen Cherry cracked the kitchen door open and peeked out. Nine or ten
men were sitting in the bar watching a Yankees game on the futuristic TV. The dining room was empty. The place probably wouldn't get busy until after eight. Entertainment started at nine. She let the door swing shut and crossed the kitchen to the sinks, where Abu was fiddling with a balky faucet.
"Mr. Hadee, do you think men like Buddy Winkler are actually dangerous?"
Concentrating on the plumbing—he wanted to get it repaired before their incompetent dishwasher arrived—Abu didn't immediately respond. Eventually, though, he looked up and said this: "Anyone who maintains absolute standards of good and evil is dangerous. As dangerous as a maniac with a loaded revolver. In fact, the person who maintains absolute standards of good and evil usually is the maniac with the revolver."
His attention refocused on the faucet. The tap swiveled at about the same speed as Turn Around Norman. Abu managed to expose its threads. Then he straightened up to hunt for some machine oil. "Nabila, by the way, saw Reverend Winkler on TV last night. He gave the invocation at the big Republican rally at Madison Square Garden. Evidently, when he was introduced he received an ovation."
Ellen Cherry shook her curls in disgust, then checked to see if any stray hairs had landed in the falafel. "Suppose he was exposed as the leader—one of the leaders—of a plot that could destroy famous property and kill innocent victims?"
"So?"
"Well, then everybody would turn against him, right?"
With a paper towel, Abu wiped off excess oil from the faucet neck. His
laugh was as dry and scratchy as a roadrunner's toenails. "I would not count on that," he said. "That would depend. If it is committed in the name of God or country, there is no crime so heinous that the public will not forgive it."
By nine o'clock, the I & I was, well, if not jumping, if not rocking, at least hopping like Boomer Petway on one whole foot. Many of Friday night's customers had returned, and some had brought friends along. If the restaurant wasn't occupied to capacity, it held, nevertheless, its largest crowd since Super Bowl Sunday, and there was something of the Super Bowl air of high

expectation in the room. As the hour of ten approached, men were on their feet as if awaiting a kickoff. But what they were waiting for was a sixteen-year-old girl whom the bandleader would reluctantly introduce as "Salome."
She appeared without warning and with a minimum of fanfare, dressed in a filmy harem pajama of flaring chiffon over which she wore a considerably more opaque two-piece meta-costume consisting of a brief halter-top and girdle, brocaded in silver and gold and spangled with tinkly disks and flowers. Riding low upon her hips, the girdle afforded an optimum view of belly skin, although her navel was masked by an isolated rosette of brocade, a stylized chestnut burr whose quills protected something round and sweet and altogether fertile, some Mesopotamian seed-nut not yet sprouted. Circling her wrists were alabaster and metal aerodromes housing buzzing squadrons of unseen bees; circling her ankles were beads and bells; while her neck was ringed by a reef of paste jewels from whose nadir was suspended a larger island of gold.
In Ellen Cherry's opinion, the costume was ongepotchket—and old- fashioned and corny to boot. However, nobody present was interested in Ellen Cherry's opinion, not even Spike. Here, it should be noted that Salome was barefoot.
From her painted toenails to her head of short, black ringlets, she measured five-three or five-four. Generally speaking, her body was slender and serpentine: her breasts were small and appeared to be still developing, but she swelled at the hips, presenting a pelvis fully capable of accommodating childbirth. Despite rather bushy eyebrows, her face was gorgeous. She had the complexion of a night-blooming lily, dense lips that might have been molded from the meat of muskmelons, a longish nose that in its curl and grace resembled the scroll of a small violin, cheeks and chin whose juxtaposition of delicate bone to carefree baby fat combined the elegance of a racehorse with the robustness of a mule; and mammoth liquid brown eyes, whose luster and latent heat could convince a chemist that chocolate, if not a living organism, was at least a fossil fuel.
But it was her manner as much as her looks that turned men's hearts into squirrel cages. First onstage, Salome appeared like a startled doe caught in the headlights of an onrushing truck. Timid and uncomfortable, she would fidget, flick her hair, roll her eyes, nervously clench her tambourine, pluck at the seat of her girdle, and alternately glare at and shrink from the audience. In no aspect, however, did her shyness or self-consciousness inhibit the free movement of her body once she began to dance. The effect was that of a seduction victim who, because she is virginal, betrothed to another man, or contemptuous of her

seducer, mentally recoils from his sexual attentions, only to find her body enthusiastically responding in spite of herself. If there existed in the universe any display with a stronger guarantee of igniting the male libido, it had yet to be cataloged.
In Ellen Cherry's opinion, Salome wasn't much more than a gauche little schoolgirl "picking at her bottom like her drawers are riding up the crack of her ass," but, again, nobody was interested in Ellen Cherry's opinions, least of all not Detective Shaftoe, who, having returned to sit at a front table, got so excited he placed himself under arrest. Salome simply was not a matter of opinion. About an empress, a poetess, a pop star, one might be opinionative, for such women either are frozen in the amber of history or are speeding with one down the illusionary road of one's own time. Salome, on the other hand, had a quality that was timeless. Although innocently young, there was the suggestion of years of experience behind her. She even seemed wise, not in any conscious or formidable way, but rather as if something strangely meaningful clung to her, a secret knowledge or hidden wisdom; a bright creative power and a dark destructive power, neither of which she had to think about, for she didn't think quite so much as she was thought.
Salome shook her necklace: serpent à sonnettes. She shook her bracelets: rattelslang. She shook her anklets: culebra de cascabel. She shook her tambourine: skallerorm and klapperschlange. And it was clear to every Adam in the restaurant, every Adamu in the bar, that she was the one who'd made friends with the Snake, that she'd let it lick the blood of her first menstruation, that she . . . oooo eee, that she . . . oooo eee, that she . . . oooo eee, that she now knew what the Serpent knew.
The harder she danced, the more vividly she projected the image of the passive, slightly unwilling, recipient of male energy; and yet at the same time (though time had ceased to exist) she represented an agent of calamity, a cunning danger to all men. And through the veil of blue smoke and red light, and white steam off the falafel trays, every expressionless face—locked in its zone between ego and release, anxiety and delight—every face was thrust up at her.
So occupied was Ellen Cherry that evening with fulfilling her customers' secondary desires, desires for food and drink (chiefly drink) that she had scant occasion to ponder Patsy's call. Any decision regarding Boomer and whether or not he need be warned of Buddy's presumed intentions would have to be postponed. Her immediate reaction, however, was that her husband—technically speaking, he was still her husband—wouldn't touch Bud's scheme with a ten-foot

welding rod, not even if Bud required his services, which he probably did not. The Boomer Petway whom she believed she knew and understood would never buy into churchdom's shameless flirtation with ultimate cataclysm, let alone hustle to usher in the doom. Or would he? He'd been both tolerant of and generous to Bud in the past, and an awful lot of otherwise sane citizens had bought into it, literally, with cash donations that many of them scarcely could afford.
Perhaps the aura of timelessness radiated by Salome was affecting Ellen Cherry in some subliminal way, but it was impossible for her to picture God just stomping on the brakes one day and sending the world flying through the windshield. What was the point? Was life merely a failed experiment destined to be terminated? Since his prophets had forecast a fiery end thousands of years earlier, it would seem that God had known all along that the experiment was going to flop. Why would an omnipotent, omniscient deity go to the trouble to create an infinitely complex universe if he realized from the beginning that it was only going to malfunction and go down in flames?
"Sorry, sir, they don't export Maccabee in bottles. Would you care for a can? Or, we do have Stella in the bottle. That's an Egyptian beer."
She supposed that another way to look at it was that life wasn't an experiment but a test, a test that most but not all would flunk. For those few who passed, there awaited a reward, an afterlife not only experientially superior to life but free of life's planned obsolescence. There was something about such a system that struck her as simplistic, if not degrading, but she couldn't put her finger on it, at least not right then.
"Two Maccabees, a Stella, and a brandy Alexandria. No, not Alexander, Alexandria. Don't ask me the difference. If you want," she told the bartender, "I'll ask the guy in the fez on my way to the kitchen."
One thing about which she was reasonably certain, however, was that Buddy Winkler's insensitivity to the beauty in life, his insensitivity to life, per se, was connected somehow to his ironclad conviction that human beings, unlike God, tended to color outside of the lines—and therefore the coloring book ought to be soaked in gasoline and burned. Time, in his view, was a short, sloppy path from Eve's crayon box to the Messiah's fire box.
At that moment, Salome, her eyes demurely downcast, whacked her well- formed and busy young rump with her tambourine, sending a wave of ecstatic vibration over the tabletops and causing two Cypriot economists to spin on their bar stools. The wave hit Ellen Cherry as she emerged from the kitchen,

supporting a laden tray. Outwardly, she paid it little heed, but the shape of eternity outlined by its resonating vectors must have guided a zigzagging mental sequence into place, for she found herself suggesting to herself that all these folks who're milling about waiting for Jesus to parachute to earth and break up the party are likely to be disappointed. Personally, she just couldn't imagine a future, regardless how distant, when some waitress somewhere would not be wobbling out of a kitchen on aching arches to deliver yet another dish of, well, if not baba ghanoug, some equally unimposing pacifier of the stomach's perennially recurring contractions. She was, nevertheless, compelled to concede that an unending future in which an unending parade of waitresses served up unending plates of hash would strike some people as a pretty good working definition of hell, while still others might ask for no finer paradise.
~
Information about time cannot be imparted in a straightforward way. Like furniture, it has to be tipped and tilted to get it through the door. If the past is a solid oak buffet whose legs must be unscrewed and whose drawers must be removed before, in an altered state, it can be upended into the entryway of our minds, then the future is a king-size waterbed that hardly stands a chance, especially if it needs to be brought up in an elevator.
Those billions who persist in perceiving time as the pursuit of the future are continually buying waterbeds that will never make it beyond the front porch or the lobby. And if man's mission is to reside in the fullness of the present, then he's got no space for the waterbed, anyhow, not even if he could lower it through a skylight.
Ellen Cherry Charles, no less than Buddy Winkler, participated in history, that modern form of consciousness that glorifies the dismantled buffet, yet blindly craves the waterbed. Unlike the Reverend Buddy Winkler, however, Ellen Cherry had not rejected nature—the living present, the living planet—in order to chase after a transcendent goal. That's why Buddy's behavior confounded her. She was much too busy at the moment slinging tahini and mopping up spilled gin to analyze in any depth their temporal differences; indeed, though she had moved a fair amount of furniture in her short life, she may have been intellectually incapable of such analysis, even in serene surroundings. Yet, she was entirely correct to propose that Buddy's disregard for

nature, art, and the human experience was tied to his concept of time, especially in regard to an ultimate five o'clock whistle followed by an afterlife.
When the sixth veil falls—and with a barefoot kid called Salome performing the ancient Levantine birth dance in a testosterone-bubbling New York bar, it might no longer be premature to speak of falling veils—when the sixth veil falls, the desensitizing, corrupting illusion of bullet-train history and its apocalyptic destination will surely dissolve.
Roland Abu Hadee once remarked that the reason that Jews habitually accomplished more than Moslems, more than Christians, for that matter; the reason a Jew seldom hesitated to take on artistic, social, or commercial tasks that would frighten off, say, a possibly more qualified Gentile, was because the Jew wasn't betting all of his or her chips on the hereafter; Jews were boldly playing their hands, cashing their checks, here and now; they were going for it in their own lifetime because they had never been convinced, as a people, that the banks would be open in heaven.
The patent truth is that nobody, regardless of race, religion, or personal enlightenment, nobody knows whether or not there is an afterlife. Only the dead can say for sure, and they aren't talking. Energy never perishes, so the concept of reincarnation makes a certain amount of sense, but there's absolutely no proof, "memories" of "past lives" (genetic pot shards?) notwithstanding. Despite all absence of evidence, however, there thrives a popular and stern faith in the end of time and in the orchids or onions to be distributed at the finale; and that faith, that wishful—or fearful—thinking, constitutes a veil so thick, so sturdy that it's a wonder we can see to get out of bed in the morning. If nothing else, the sixth veil is an effective sun block. It may also be a shackle and a shroud.
As long as a population can be induced to believe in a supernatural hereafter, it can be oppressed and controlled. People will put up with all sorts of tyranny, poverty, and painful treatment if they're convinced that they'll eventually escape to some resort in the sky where lifeguards are superfluous and the pool never closes. Moreover, the faithful are usually willing to risk their skins in whatever military adventure their government may currently be promoting. When the sixth veil drops, there will be a definite shortage of cannon fodder.
Those in high places are not immune. While the afterlife concept renders the masses manageable, it renders their masters destructive. A world leader who's convinced that life is merely a trial for the more valuable and authentic afterlife is less hesitant to risk starting a nuclear holocaust. A politician or

corporate executive who's expecting the Rapture to arrive on the next flight from Jerusalem is not going to worry much about polluting oceans or destroying forests. Why should he?
Thus, to emphasize the afterlife is to deny life. To concentrate on heaven is to create hell.
In their desperate longing to transcend the disorderliness, friction, and unpredictability that pesters life; in their desire for a fresh start in a tidy habitat, germ-free and secured by angels, religious multitudes are gambling the only life they may ever have on a dark horse in a race that has no finish line. Theirs is a death wish on a very grand scale, an eschatological extension of Kissinger's perverse logic—"In order to live forever, we must die as quickly as possible" — and if time doesn't run out soon, they're going to form a posse and run it out. Fortunately for them, they see signs everywhere that the end is near. Unfortunately, they're virtually the same signs that their ancestors saw millennia before them.
Meanwhile, the thermodynamic and cosmological forces that form the basis for "time" spiral merrily along without going anywhere very much. Just around. And around again. Order expanding into disorder contracting into order at a rate so incredibly slow that it bores and bewilders us to the extent that we have to invent psychological endings for it. What the sixth veil conceals is not a blank clock but a relieved expression, the expression on our own faces as we meet ourselves coming from the opposite direction, free to enjoy the present at last because we are no longer fettered by the future that is history.
~
On Sunday evening, there was no music, and Isaac & Ishmael's closed early, right after the Yankees game. Throughout the televised contest, at least once an inning, one customer or another mentioned Salome, usually in a voice that was skittery and feverish, the voice of a prospective bridegroom. Alas, the tambourine lay silent, and neither Abu nor Spike could satisfy anybody's curiosity regarding its mistress's identity. "Well, what nationality is she?" asked a frustrated fan. Abu shook his head. "She says she is a Canaanite. But, of course, that, like her name, is her idea of show biz." Nobody smiled. "She's in the student nurse program at Bellevue," a man said. Everyone looked at him. He was an American, a stocky black man with cotton hair, a relative newcomer to the I

& I. "She's a Lebanese national, here on a student visa. During the day she empties bedpans." There were incredulous glances. "How do you know that?" "Maybe I'm a fucking detective," said Shaftoe, and he drained his beer and walked out.
Within an hour, the last cup had been washed, the lights extinguished, and Abu was on his way home. "Mr. Cohen is going over the books," he said to the security guard as he left. "He will be in the office for a while." "What about the waitress?" asked the guard. Abu paused. "Oh? The waitress is still here?" He paused again. "There is no problem," he said at last, and, rubbing his cherry- carrot nose, he climbed into the waiting car.
Thirty minutes later, about the time that Ultima Sommervell was latching her freshly packed suitcase, about the time that the Reverend Buddy Winkler was laying a barbecue-stained Armani jacket in his new bag, about the time that Turn Around Norman began to turn in his sleep—a rotation that conceivably could take most of the night to complete—the guard went around back to the courtyard and put his ear to the wall. He wasn't really surprised to hear Mr. Cohen and the waitress riding the dolphin; in his mind, he could almost see them entwined on the office couch, although he couldn't have envisioned that Ellen Cherry was naked except for a spanking new pair of leopard-skin stilettos with emerald clasps, the paper and ribbon that had wrapped them mixed in with the clothing scattered about the office floor. The guard was prepared for the thumps and creaks and meatball ping-pong, the feathery throbs and fermented murmurs that were still lingua franca in AIDS-stifled America, but he was decidedly unprepared for what he heard next, a laudation that prompted him to cross himself and beg forgiveness for the imaginary sin of eavesdropping.
"Jezebel. Jezebel. Painted Queen of Israel. I am praising thee, O Queen of Israel. Whore of the Golden Calf. Strumpet of Baal. Jezebel. Slut of Samaria. Our queen whom the dogs are eating. The watercourse of the Jews is flowing through thee. Jezebel. My Queen. Whose daughter is ruling in Jerusalem. From whose womb is pouring the House of David. Mmm. Jezebel. Priestess of Fornication. Mmm. Queen of Spades. Queen of Tarts. O Jezebel, you are my queen, I exalt thee and praise thy sandals."
On and on in that manner until the guard clasped his crucifix and fled to the street,
On and on in that manner until, blocks away, Conch Shell and Painted Stick were drawn to their rusty window grate as if a magic magnetism was in the air,
On and on in that manner until Ellen Cherry's new shoes were launched

into the river of life, amidst a blind boogie-woogie of tadpoles.

the seventh veil
~
On the list of the world's greatest inventions, the mirror is surprisingly high. As invention goes, the genesis of mirrors didn't exactly require a truckload of imagination, the looking glass being merely an extension of pond-surface, made portable and refined. Yet, because it is consulted with such frequency and anticipation by the three billion souls who animate our ball of clay, consulted almost as if it were a powerful deity that can grant favors or take them away; because, whereas most matter absorbs light, the mirror returns light to the world (it arrests light but does not book it, releasing it on its own recognizance); because it also returns, however briefly and superficially, the individual identity that people are prone to surrender to the orthodoxy of the state and its stern gods; because it never fails to provide us with someone to love and someone to hate; the mirror, on the list of great inventions, is rated higher than the thermos bottle, though not quite as high as room service.
"I realize, sir," said Can o' Beans to the mirror, "that the angle of reflection is always equal to the angle of incidence, but why? Can you explain it?"
"?ti nialpxe uoy ..."
"And a further thing, Mr. Mirror," the can went on. "Since you reflect chaos and instability as objectively as you reflect order, since you reflect the novelty and variety that humankind's institutions seem designed to suppress and deny, are you not a dangerous agent of truth? I mean, I know that magicians employ you in their trickery, but isn't uncompromising realism your forte? If humans erect institutions to conceal the unruly aspects of their own minds, aren't you mirrors sort of like holes in the fortress walls? Are you not signposts pointing away from rationality and standardization? Because you chaps show it all—good and evil, beauty and ugliness, balance and disarray—with equal emphasis. Or am I making you out to be subversive when actually you're only blase? No offense intended, sir, in either case."
".esac rehtie ni, ris, dednetni . . ."
Oh, it was pointless trying to hold a civil conversation with a mirror. No matter what anybody said to them, they just turned it around.

This particular mirror, the badly scratched one that leaned against a dank wall in the cellar of St. Patrick's Cathedral, had once been a fixture in a men's toilet upstairs off the apse. In its heyday, it had held in its flat hands many famous faces. Politicians, tycoons, Broadway stars. John F. Kennedy, Truman Capote, Rudolf Valentino, and countless others as glamorous or mighty. Now, alas, it reflected a can of pork 'n' beans. And a sorry can of beans it was, too; a misshapen, savagely scarred plop of metal from which a few scraps of label hung like tassels from a burlesque queen's nips.
If the bean tin was dismayed by its image, it did not let on. In fact, it seemed upbeat and full of itself. The reason for its lofty spirits, despite its pitiful condition, lay in its knowledge that four or five portraits of it existed, splendid oil paintings that captured it in its prime. "What other bean can has been preserved thus for posterity?" Can o' Beans asked rhetorically. "And should my portrait lack the glitter, the chic of traditional society portraiture, so much the better. I am a modern, proletarian icon, and it is fitting that I should be depicted in a brash and modernist style."
In the weeks since he/she had learned of his/her portraits, Can o' Beans had gone to the mirror time and time again, whereas previously he/she had avoided his/her reflection altogether. "It doesn't matter anymore that I'm a wreck," he/she told the looking glass. "I've been immortalized." Then, because he/she was sensitive, he/she would add, "So buck up, dear fellow, and forget your cracks. You, too, may be resurrected in some unexpected way."
Like Spoon, Can o' Beans believed that Ellen Cherry's decision to paint them was indicative of some special insight, some auspicious affinity. "If we can't turn to Miss Charles," he/she said, "then I daresay we can't turn to anyone."
Dirty Sock didn't buy it for an instant. He was impressed neither by news of the paintings nor by Spoon's description of how Ellen Cherry had held her up and studied her with incredible concentration. "The bimbo's just touched in the ol' potato," said Dirty Sock. "All artists are touched in their potatoes."
Ordinarily, Can o' Beans might have launched into a discourse on the notorious thin line between genius and madness, a boundary as much in dispute as any in the Middle East, but that day he/she had had a different point to make. "On the other hand, I fail to comprehend why our venerable leaders persist in believing that human assistance is desirable or necessary. With all respect to Miss Charles and Mr. Norman, it's always seemed iffy to me, and now that Mr. Stick has found us a route to the sea ..."
"Ever since he whipped that junkie's ass, ol' Stick's been acting like he's

touched in his potato."
Ordinarily, Can o' Beans might have complained about the stocking's slang,
pointing out that a potato was a vegetable and nothing eke, a truism to which Dirty Sock might have responded, "Guess it takes one to know one." On that day, however, pedagoguery gave way to concern. "True, Mr. Stick has devoted several weeks to the contemplation of his all too manlike deed," the can agreed, "but he's apparently resolving the matter. At least he's quit lying in the window all day, scanning the horizon for signs of cosmic repercussion, and, of course, seeing precious little except the sides of passing buses. He and Miss Shell are plotting again, and that's what worries me. Why don't we just locomote down to the ships and be done with it? Miss Spoon—doesn't she look pretty now that she's been polished?—Miss Spoon lives in mortal terror that they're going to send her out again, another try at infiltrating the private life of Turn Around Norman. It's for our dear Spoon that I'm concerned."
"Come on, perfesser, you mean to tell me you're not scared about lighting out for the waterfront to sneak aboard some big foreign boat?"
"Me? Fear? What do I have to lose? I was already the luckiest bean can that ever was. And now I will live forever, enshrined as I am on canvas for future generations to meet and to judge."
"Right," growled Dirty Sock. "You and ol' Moaning Lisa."
*
Spoon's fears were not ill-founded. The stick and the shell were, indeed,
considering dispatching her to have another go at Norman's donation box. It wasn't that the Middle Eastern relics were unappre-ciative of Ellen Cherry's potential friendship, as expressed in her paintings, her eye game, and her erstwhile fascination with the gentleman who turned around for his supper. No, it was that the relics knew something that the others did not.
What they knew was that they were trapped.
That is, two of their company were trapped.
Originally, they had entered Manhattan very late on a rainy, foggy, autumn
night. They had lain for days in a culvert near the Jersey-side entrance to the Lincoln Tunnel, waiting for precisely those meteorological conditions. Even at three in -the morning, in thick drizzle, however, undetected travel proved more problematic than they had anticipated, and when, on their blind path to the Atlantic, they'd chanced upon the open doors of a holy place, they decided to seek temporary asylum inside.
A van had been parked in front of the cathedral, and a long plastic

accordion hose of large circumference ran from the vehicle into the church, as if the serpent of Eden, grown immense and vengeful, had returned to eat up all the world's communion wafers. The truth was, St. Patrick's was having its carpets washed: the hose was funneling a detergent foam. At any rate, the objects had followed the hose through the main door, and, then, having seen cleaners at work in the nave, they had scooted, toddled, and slithered down the narrow staircase that descended from the narthex. In the basement, which had been left open by the janitors, they'd found yet another door, slightly ajar. Painted Stick pried it wide enough for them to slip through and descend a second set of steps.
The doors of the ancient world, to which Painted Stick was accustomed, generally swung freely on their hinges, unless manually bolted or latched. When the door to the sub-basement swung closed behind them, however, there had been an ominous click. Modern doors had catches, it seemed, that engaged automatically. The catch was controlled by a brass knob, round and slippery, and it was quite impossible for the stick, by far the most dexterous of the inanimates, to manipulate it: he had tried on several occasions while his comrades were otherwise occupied. Unless a custodian were again to leave the door ajar, and that hadn't happened in a year and a half, there was no way that the objects might exit through it.
Now, Spoon, Dirty Sock, and, if he didn't mind losing a little more paint, Painted Stick could escape through the window grate. But Conch Shell and Can o' Beans were much too broad to negotiate its grid. Those two were trapped.
Well, the objects had needed some time in which to rest and make plans, and Conch Shell had convinced Painted Stick that the Third Temple of Jerusalem was yet to be manifest, a fact corroborated by Spoon, who had repeated Buddy Winkler's account of the Dome of the Rock. But Temple or no Temple, all of them were itching now to get on with their journey, and the only way they might proceed was if a human being opened the doors or else took a crowbar to the window grate.
Miss Charles had been a likely candidate, but it had been months since she'd stood out front of the cathedral, and Spoon hadn't the faintest idea how to locate her apartment. That meant that they must resort to Turn Around Norman. Or something altogether different.
It was destined to be something altogether different, for the simple reason that one afternoon in midrevolution, Turn Around Norman suddenly scooped up his donation box, flashed his fatal blue eyes, flared his swan-perfect nose, fired a

spiny projectile from his bardic mouth, spun on a soiled sneaker, and left the Fifth Avenue stage, never to return.
So abrupt was the performer's departure that it caught the objects completely off guard, although in retrospect they realized that they should have seen it coming. As the weather had warmed that spring, there had been an influx of preachers onto Fifth Avenue, a scattered flock of rackety birds migrating in from some dark, harsh land. At least four of them had settled within earshot of St. Patrick's, and at all hours of the day the objects could hear their magpie cries. "Praise the Lord!" "The Rapture is coming!" "Repent, for the end is near!" "Ye generation of vipers, how can ye escape the damnation of hell?"
As the warnings escalated in volume and frequency, Conch Shell had to reassure Painted Stick that they were standard rhetoric and not bulletins from Jerusalem. To reinforce her assurances, Can o' Beans pointed out that the voices were only reciting biblical verses or parroting shopworn slogans. It hadn't occurred to any of them that the increase in sidewalk evangelism might be bothering Turn Around Norman, disrupting his timing, cracking his concentration, or tipping the gyroscope that was his heart. After all, that stretch of Fifth Avenue was habitually clamorous. Moreover, in the past, neither competition from other street performers nor the taunts of the cynical had fazed him.
In late May, summer had come to sit on New York's face; hot, moist, sticky, pungent, and oppressive; and with the warmer weather had arrived a warmer preacher, a gaunt man in an expensive-looking suit. His mouth gleamed with golden teeth, his hungry face was tortured with pustules, and his voice was reminiscent of a sad and smoke-filled horn. This man was not given to amateurish sloganeering, but, rather, preached full-blown sermons, elaborate, histrionic, and deceptively slick. Most significantly, he had, with obvious deliberation, stationed himself in front of St. Patrick's, practically shoulder to shoulder with the poignant cherub who oscillated with such supernatural slowness in the street.
For the greater part of a week, Turn Around Norman had gone on with the show, exhibiting not the slightest indication that the intruder had broached his interior shell. Then—presto!—he was gone, leaving the objects stunned. And stranded, in more ways than one.
"We should have seen it coming," said Can o' Beans.
" Tis true," Conch Shell agreed. "Pious dogma, if allowed to flourish, will always drive magic away."

~
Ellen Cherry had written to Boomer, advising him of Buddy Winkler's intentions. Being less certain of Ultima Sommervell's intentions, she avoided any mention of the art dealer. It was not until Boomer wrote back a month later that she learned that Buddy had remained in Jerusalem only ten days, and Ultima half that long. About their visits, Boomer's letter had this to say:
In Jerusalem I get the feeling that I'm leering at the panty outline of history. Something important is taking shape right under the surface, at the crotch of the world, and if the light is right you can detect its general outline, although you don't have a clue what color the thing is or whether it's made out of silk or cotton or rubber or a burlap sack. Anyways, it appeals to the operative in me, and I'm sitting here straining my eyes trying to see the panties better or see all the way through them like they was a veil covering up some fabulous twat, a pussy made out of gold or something, when Bud shows up and he's even more intrigued with the outline than me. He's excited and worked up and talking a mess of double- talk, acting like he's got more secrets than a mongrel's got fleas. He's got a caper on the burner and wants me to help him with it, only he won't say what it is. He indicates that I'll have to use my torch equipment, only not to weld something together but to cut through it, he indicates that me and several other dudes that I'll be bossing will be burning into a place that's got metal gates or bars around it. I hadn't gotten your letter yet, so I couldn't guess what the place might be. I mean he obviously wouldn't be robbing a bank in the name of the Lord Jesus, so I tell him yeah maybe I'll do it, so long as it doesn't interfere with my sculpture. Of course at that point he gives me a sermon about creating graven images.
Well, anyways, candy thighs, after Bud's been here about a week he tells me that the whole deal's postponed and wants to know if I'm planning to stay in Jerusalem until January, which as a matter of fact I am because that's when the monument we're making is scheduled to be unveiled. Ultima, who was here for five days during this same period trying to get me to turn out some New York art, has some information on our monument which I've asked her to share with you if you're interested. Give her a call.
The reason that Bud put off bombing the Dome of the Rock (if you're right and that's what he's got up his sleeve) is due to Israeli politics. Although the right-wing religious parties gained a lot of ground in the last election, it wasn't enough to put them over the top, and Israel ended up with another coalition

government in which the hard-liners in the conservative Likud party, which is friendly with the old boys on the far right, share power with the liberals in the Labor party. Now that was nearly four years ago, and everybody is saying that despite the concessions from the PLO and all, that in the election coming up in November the right-wing's going to grab the whole pie, marang (sp?) and all. So Bud reckons he'll have a heap easier time of it with the far right minding the store, and he's looking to wait until they're inaugurated next January before he commits his naughty act. You get the picture, honeysuckle drawers?
She did. And there wasn't a rug in it anywhere.
~
The air pressure inside a champagne bottle is almost identical to that inside a big truck tire: approximately ninety pounds, for the record, but there the similarity surely ends. There're bound to be major differences in the ambiance department.
Most of the period that she had been in New York, beginning around the time of the sale of the Airstream turkey, Ellen Cherry experienced a sensation of internal pressure. While the force it exerted was constant, its character was not. The pressure could be tingly and giddy, or it could be crushing and dull. In other words, part of the time she felt like a bottle of champagne, the rest of the time like a truck tire.
Thanks to her unsettling experiences with the transitory spoon, as well as her unlikely and rather, ah ... idiosyncratic affair with her boss, she'd been a magnum of bubbly most of that spring and early summer, and the gases that pushed against the walls of her container possessed enough sparkle to propel her to a phone to call Ultima Sommervell. Ultima would be closing shop and moving to the Hamptons soon, so if Ellen Cherry wished to quiz her concerning Boomer's activities, she had to act immediately or wait until fall. She was no longer desperate, she told herself, merely curious, but she hastened to arrange a meeting. And she was bold enough to insist that they meet in the downtown gallery, aware that dogs such as Ultima's seldom traveled south of Fourteenth Street.
On the day of the appointment, a day in early June when ozone coiled around every lamppost and sweat ran down to the sea, Ellen Cherry rode the Eighth Avenue express to Canal Street, then walked back up to Grand. The first

thunderstorm of the season was in the dressing room, donning its black robes and its necklace of hailstones, strapping on its electrical sword. She glanced at the sky, wondering if she would make it home before showtime. She was wearing a pair of kiwi suede pumps with lime satin bows, a gift from her lover, and although their soles might risk eternity in a burning hell, she preferred that they not be baptized. Oh, Spike would sprinkle them soon enough, but she'd protect them, if she could, from total immersion.
Ultima would be annoyed that Ellen Cherry hadn't brought her a painting or two, but she really hadn't any to bring. She had destroyed the last of the landscapes when Boomer was granted his exhibition, and pictures of a bean can just wouldn't do. For one thing, even though there were significant stylistic differences between them and Andy Warhol's soup cans of decades past, they, nevertheless, would be criticized as derivative. Or so she thought. Imagine her surprise, then, when she walked into the prominent gallery to find its walls covered with blatant imitations of Jackson Pollock, Bridget Riley, Ellsworth Kelly, et al, as well as images appropriated directly, without personal embellishment of any degree, from TV, movies, and advertising. Everything about the show signaled a perverse denial of originality that must have been widespread, since it was a grouping of works by a dozen or more relatively successful younger artists and not the product of one failed imagination. She was staring at an ersatz Joseph Beuys when Ultima called to her from a balcony and invited her up.
Unlike the spacious, dog-inhabited suite at Sommervell's Fifty-seventh Street gallery, the office at the SoHo branch consisted of a desk, a file cabinet, and three chairs, arranged informally on the open balcony. From her seat, Ellen Cherry could look down on the usurped art and puzzle over it as Ultima imparted what she could about Boomer's rather mysterious project.
"It would seem," said Ultima, "that Mr. Petway struck up a friendship with an Israeli sculptor by the name of Amos Zif."
"Amos!" blurted Ellen Cherry. "So it's a male!"
"Sorry?"
"Never mind. Please, go ahead." Out of nowhere, Ellen Cherry experienced
a billowing of relief. In fact, her internal pressure, which, due to the proximity of Ultima and the cynically mimetic art, had begun to resume the personality of the acrid, dead air inside a tire, now took a turn toward Dom Perignon.
"This Zif chap was awarded a commission to create a monument, a piece of plaza plop we'd call it in New York, that's to be plopped in a tiny square just

west of the Old City, that noisy, smelly place in which, according to Mr. Petway, even Houdini would have suffered claustrophobia. í bloody well did. Directly outside of the Jaffa Gate, there's an old Jewish neighborhood that was badly damaged in the 1967 war, and it's in the process of being restored and reoccupied, rather modestly fancy in architecture and rather immodestly ethnocentric in tone. The project directors asked Zif to make a statue that would capture the essence of the land, both ancient and modern, secular and religious. It's being paid for by some wealthy Americans, and that is what they specified. So, he was racking his wits trying to come up with something, and the residents of his kibbutz were feeding him ideas, when our Mr. Petway submitted a design of his own. It succeeded in offending the whole 'kibbutz and caboodle,' as he put it, except for Amos Zif, who adored the idea, as well he might, since Boomer Petway is an American genius and nobody in Israel is making art worth crossing the street for, let alone the ocean. Israel is a Third World country, I might submit, yet too well educated to be innocently charming. There's nothing worse than a backward sophisticate, at least when he comes to art."
"Ultima, you honestly think Boomer is a genius?"
"Don't you?"
Ellen Cherry shook her head. "Hardly, although I might go along with idiot
savant."
Ultima laughed a spitty British laugh. "Between you and me, I suspect
you're right. Don't you dare tell anyone I said so. In any case, as you must have been informed, he left the kibbutz in the company of Zif, and the pair of them have been collaborating on the monument. It's to be unveiled in January, and they've decided, jolly wisely I'd imagine, to keep its design secret until then. I, however, was allowed a preview of half of it."
"Which half?"
"The bottom, naturally. To be precise, what I saw was the pedestal." "And?"
"And it was nothing terribly distinguished. There's a large pile of rocks,
which I suppose is appropriate, and from the rock pile there rises a vertical, three-dimensional map of Palestine, the ancient Palestine of biblical times, with cities that have disappeared and boundaries that are no longer recognized. The map is fashioned from steel rods, welded together, latticelike. It's tall, perhaps six meters, and I've been led to believe that the statue that is to stand upon it will be of equal height."
"Six meters. What's that in feet?"

Ultima regarded her in the way that a Parisian regards a tourist who pronounces croissant as if the breakfast roll were an irritable female relative. "My dear," she purred, "a meter is three feet plus three inches. Surely you can do the arithmetic."
Kisser of small dogs! thought Ellen Cherry, but she held her temper. "This statue, then. You don't have any clues about it?"
"Not even the U.S. backers have seen a sketch or a model. I do hope it's neither lewd nor ludicrous. There's scant sense of humor in that part of the world. Passion, yes. Humor, no. Anyway, the good news is that our chap is going to take off a bit and make me a couple pieces for my group show in the fall."
Ellen Cherry gestured toward the gallery below them. "Will these artists be included in the group?"
"Many of them, yes. Do I detect a note of disapproval?"
"I guess I just don't get it. Half of them are ripoffs, and the other half are dull and bland."
"No, you don't get it, do you? My dear, you're much too young to be so out of touch with the Zeitgeist. Originality is a myth perpetuated by the naive, the romantic, and the unscrupulous. There has been no truly original art since prehistoric times. Every artist has simply reworked the art of his or her predecessors. My artists are unique in that they've owned up to the practice. They've taken it a step further by refusing to participate in the ruse. By simply appropriating the work of artists they admire, copying it and exhibiting it as their own, they are courageously honest—and tragically sad. Their admission of defeat is part and parcel of the melancholia that epitomizes our time."
"Fraught with significance, eh?"
"You sneer at my artists for being passive and unaffecting, but you haven't bothered to ask yourself why they've chosen this look. It is, after all, a purposeful choice. They choose to reject the decadent picture-making of the bourgeoisie. They choose to scorn the aura that surrounds high art, an aura of preciousness and rarity that actually has more to do with art as commodity than art as vehicle for social improvement."
"The kind of art you show uptown."
"Yes, my puppies and I have to eat. Uptown, the art is all aura, and collectors pay dearly to transfer that aura to their homes or offices. Here in SoHo, the art is simply object. It depreciates the whole regressive notion of glorification of culture. And why shouldn't it? What is there in our culture to glorify? AIDS? Poverty? Violence? Corruption? Greed? The bomb? Every day

there are reports from the Middle East that portend our destruction. It's bad enough that they're destroying themselves over there, but it could escalate to include the rest of us at any moment. It would be socially irresponsible for an artist to produce precious, pretty, elitist commodities in the shadow of Jerusalem."
Ultima lit a pink cigarette and exhaled plumes of perfumed smoke through her fine nostrils. She seemed to be waiting for her little lecture to sink in. Maybe she suspected that it took awhile for information to be absorbed through all that hair. Eventually, she said, "Please don't take my comments as a personal affront, my dear. There will always be a place for the landscapist. But as you leave, have a closer look at the artists that you've belittled. If they have a common message, it is: 'We concede defeat. We haven't a chance against the masterpieces of the past, against the marketplace of the present, against the annihilations of the future, but, nevertheless, here we are.' There's something so poignant and brave and ironic about it that it sometimes makes me weep."
"Yeah," said Ellen Cherry, "I do have to get going. Big storm brewing out there."
After descending the wrought-iron spiral staircase, however, she tarried for a full quarter hour in the gallery, waltzing with the imps that Ultima had let loose in her ivory tower. Hadn't she, Ellen Cherry, also been defeated by art? But to whom had she confessed? Nobody. She had silently withdrawn. Slunk away, as it were. It had never occurred to her to make an artistic statement out of her failure. So, maybe Ultima was right, these artists were more honest, more courageous than she. It took guts to file for bankruptcy of the imagination. Anyhow, whoever said that to be an artist you had to invent? She supposed she had always accepted innovation as a precondition of important work, as if it were a law, but, of course, art didn't have laws. That was precisely what was appealing about it. That was what, in her opinion, made art better than life. Or, if not superior, at least more interesting.
On the other hand, what was interesting about the exact rendering in oils of a subway map? How bleak, how unchallenging, how ordinary, how dumb. Now, if you applied a little eye game to it. ... She started to blur her focus but quickly refrained. She needed to deal with the work on its own terms. And as far as she could tell, its terms were social, intellectual, and political, not aesthetic. This art existed for the purpose of conceptual argument, rather than for its impact on perception. She was surrounded by ideological propositions in which the ideology was visually static. In other words, the ideas were trapped in the art

objects, themselves; from which, due to lack of expression, they could never break free to ride the retinal rails into the mystery tunnels of the psyche.
What these pictures are are tombstones, she thought. Maybe in their own cynical way they discover value in resignation, emptiness, and mean- inglessness; maybe they perform a service in underlining the futility of trying to compete with mass media, but, hey, they're really obituaries announcing the death of the magical power of art. And that announcement could be premature.
The longer Ellen Cherry thought about it, the more convinced she became that the mission of the artist in an overtechnologized, overmasculinized society was to call the old magic back to life.
Could it be done? Yeah, you pessimistic wimps, it could. Could she do it? Probably not, but she could give it a whirl.
She shot through the door. It wasn't raining yet, but the sky was boiling like a pot of film noir potatoes. Looking at the sky was like looking through the porthole of a washer in a hipster laundromat. At least three black turtlenecks circled between Ellen Cherry and the sun.
It was barely three o'clock, but SoHo had its lights on. The day was as dark as Jezebel's eyelids. The air was fresh and highly charged. People rushed about in it like apprehensive animals. A lot of the people wore turbans, a lot were wrapped in bedsheets. It occurred to Ellen Cherry that the whole city was starting to look like the bar at Isaac & Ishmael's. She couldn't remember the last time she'd heard English spoken on the streets of New York. On the boom boxes that she passed, each and every one turned to maximum volume as an act of legal aggression, the Spanish singers were rolling their r's for minutes at a time as a result of prestorm static.
She should have gone straight home, unplugged appliances, shut windows, and docked her new shoes in a dry closet, but she couldn't, she just couldn't. She had made up her mind that she was going to paint again; she didn't know what, she wasn't sure when, but inspired by the pessimism of her peers, guided by the strangeness of her experience with the spoon, and letting go of her bitterness in regard to Boomer, she definitely would be painting. And to both celebrate and reaffirm her decision, she thought she owed it to herself, storm or no storm, to pay a long overdue visit to Turn Around Norman.
Norman, Norman. Human pepper mill, grinding away with such breathtaking slowness at the ancient spices that once added the zest of the robust

ecstatic to the thin broth of survival. Even if one were unmoved by his actual performance, the kind of concentration and integrity that Norman represented was a model not merely for artists but for. . . . Wait a blue-eyed minute! Where was he?
She had splurged on a taxi in order to beat the rain, and she'd won. The wind had picked up, and thunder was rumbling like a whale with a belly full of Jonahs, but not a drop had fallen, and Fifth Avenue was still relatively crowded. Yet that wasn't Turn Around Norman by the steps of the cathedral, turning in the place where for years he'd turned without fail in all manner of weather; turned daily (except Wednesday afternoons), including Christmas and Super Bowl Sunday. That wasn't Norman, that was somebody else.
Her disappointment changed to disgust. And then to fear. For the Reverend Buddy Winkler recognized her immediately after she recognized him, and he broke off his sermon in mid-admonishment to glare at her in the most hostile fashion. So twisted was his face with hate and anger that his boils squeaked like Styrofoam and his gold teeth nearly wrenched loose from his gums. In a flash, like the frog leg of lightning that kicked across the horizon, Ellen Cherry realized both what he was doing there and why he was glaring at her that way.
Two months prior, when Buddy left for Jerusalem, she had notified the FBI and the Southern Baptist Convention of his presumed intentions. If the federal agents had acted on her tip in any way, she had not been privy to it. Moderate Baptists, however, had been hunting for an excuse to remove Bud from his long- time Sunday slot on the Voice of the Sparrow Network, and they quickly suspended him. By no means was he destroyed financially—his executive position with the Third Temple Platoon compensated him quite adequately — and he continued to make guest appearances on evangelical shows (Pat Robertson admired him for his jingoism, Jimmy Swaggart for his Italian slacks); but Buddy Winkler was a preacher who needed a regular pulpit the way a toilet needed a regular flush. So one day he announced that he was "gonna preach the gospel jest like Jesus done it," and he took to the street. His decision to horn in on "that stupefied halfwit who's probably on some kinda turn-around-real-slow drug" was intended as a small measure of revenge against Ellen Cherry. Now, she stood facing him, not twenty feet away.
"There!" he shrieked. "Brothers and sisters, there she is!" He was pointing at her with a long, bony finger, his voice sounding less like a saxophone than a car alarm. "It's her! The Whore of Babylon of whose filthy fornicatin' wickedness the prophets of God hath warned."

Several pedestrians looked her over, albeit with the feigned air of utter disinterest that is customary among New Yorkers in public places, while a party of Japanese tourists fixed her in the viewfinders of their Nikons. Then, as the first fat raindrops spattered the pavement, he began to inch toward her.
"Jezebel!" he screeched. "Jezebel!"
Ellen Cherry was too shocked to move. "Jezebel!" She watched a raindrop bounce off the toe of her shoe. "Jezebel!" His eyes were murderous, his accusing finger shook like a lie-detector needle at a White House briefing. "Jezebel!"
In the basement of St. Patrick's, Conch Shell and Painted Stick rushed to the grate, followed by their three companions.
"Oh, dear," gasped Spoon. "It's her."
"Who'd you expect?" asked Dirty Sock. "Mother goddamn Teresa?" Can o' Beans was last to arrive. He/she had been contemplating his/her
reflection in the mirror, wondering if Miss Charles had painted him/her from memory or if she'd used another bean can as a model. "This situation is potentially dangerous," he/she observed.
There was a Spoon-rattling crash of thunder, and the rain began to leave the sky like refugees fleeing a revolution, arriving with nothing but the clothes on their backs and whatever skills they might have acquired in their dark villages. "Jezebel!"
The preacher advanced on her very, very slowly, as if he had borrowed a page from Turn Around Norman's book, a book printed on zinc with an ink of cold molasses. But advance he did, jagged wires of lightning twisting like Frankenstein's umbilical cord across his crazed eyes. He was less than ten paces from her when a mighty cloud clap boxed her ears, shaking her from her trance. She whirled and made as if to run, but her shoe heel, not designed for athletic action, gave way, and she fell to her knees. So drenched was she that she had trouble righting herself in the downpour.
"Jezebel!" screamed the preacher above the thunder, and he bounded toward her like an ocelot toward its fallen prey, his mouth wide open, his phallus as hard as a shovel. As he neared her, at full speed, a shaft, a stave, a wooden pole of some sort suddenly shot through the bars of the street-level grate, blocking his right ankle and tripping him flat on his face. His boils skidded along the wet concrete, a tooth punctured his lower lip. He slid directly into Ellen Cherry, but she managed to stand up and yank off her ruined shoes before dashing to safety in the rain.
The objects pulled back from the grate until the preacher, dazed, soaked,

and bleeding, stumbled down Fifth Avenue in the direction of his office, stopping every few feet to turn and stare, puzzled, in their general direction. Then, Painted Stick looked at the others guiltily, as if to say, "May the stars above forgive me. I've done it again."
~
My heart is a Latin American food stall
And your love is a health inspector from Zurich
Pepe, who'd just come on duty in the Ansonia lobby, was playing the recently released Raoul Ritz cassette on his boom box. He had intended to play it for Ellen Cherry, and he'd also intended to ask her at last about the spoon that had wasted Raoul back in April—was it really hers, how had it managed to land on Raoul? he kept forgetting to inquire—but when she walked through the door in her stocking feet, her dress sopping wet, her knees dirty, her stampede of curb looking as if it had finally gone over a cliff, Pepe's mind went blank.
"Miz Charl, holy shit, man! What happen to you, man?"
"Hard day at the office, Pepe." She smiled at him through chattering teeth and padded, dripping rainwater on the tiles, to the elevator.
Upstairs, she drew a hot bath, climbed into it, and had a brief cry. She might have wept longer had she not known that Spike would be by in an hour or two to comfort her. Spike Cohen was good at comforting her. Spike Cohen was good, in general. No starry-eyed old fool, he hadn't lost his head, begged her to marry him, been jealous of every younger man who crossed their path, or showered her with expensive gifts. About once a week, he presented her with a new pair of shoes, but, then, her shoes seemed to have short life-spans these days, and, besides, Spike got them wholesale. Maybe he wasn't Tarzan in bed, but he wasn't Cheetah, either. Any lack of athletic torque or acrobatic flex was compensated for by his tenderness, sensitivity, and attentiveness. And, of course, by the fact that at just the right moment in just the right tone of voice, he addressed her by a particular appellation of biblical origin, a name that for whatever reason had the power to spin her clitoris like the propeller on a toy motorboat.
Thanks to the increasing popularity of Salome, Isaac & Ishmael's was thriving, attracting many drinkers and some diners, even on those evenings when

the girl wasn't dancing. The place didn't get real busy until eight-thirty or nine, so on this, Ellen Cherry's night off, she expected Spike to drop by her apartment about six to spend a couple hours with her. Sure enough, at five-fifty, he tapped at her door with the wedges of a new pair of Maud Frizons. Upon admitting him, however, she saw at once that it might be she who had to supply the comfort and consolation.
"Such a pain I got! Sex is out!"
Spike's emerald eyes were duller, sadder than usual, and he walked as if he was helping somebody move a refrigerator. He explained that all week he had suffered intermittent pain and cramping in his lower back, and now it had moved into his— He used the Yiddish word for testicles, but Ellen Cherry got the idea. She was contrite. "Maybe we've been doing it too often," she suggested. "Or too hard." Having never had an older lover before, she was unclear about their durability. She didn't wish to push the envelope.
"No, no," Spike protested. "At tennis I probably already strained something. Oy!"
Spike removed his shoes and reclined on the bed. Ellen Cherry put on her shoes, the Maud Frizons that Spike had just delivered, and lay down beside him. She was wearing her kimono, and panties that were the envy of the less fortunate ones in the dresser. They, the underpants in the drawer, were continually shushing one another as they vacillated between bursts of diet-cola twitter and straining to hear everything that transpired in the bedroom. For his part, Daruma the vibrator sensed that something was amiss and that his giggling zenbo were likely to be disappointed. "When radish is cooked, crunch fly up chimney," he said.
The couple shared sips from a flask of rum that Ellen Cherry had taken to keeping on the bedside table. "Anything I can do for you?" she asked.
"No, no," said Spike, gritting his teeth. Then he told her about a reporter from the Village Voice who had shown up at the I & I that afternoon asking a lot of questions about Salome. The reporter had seen Salome dance on Saturday night, and now he wanted to write an article about her. "I say, okay, write all you want, but only with her tambourine does she talk."
"That's a fact, Spike. I haven't heard a peep from her in two months. And she's out of there fast as those skinny legs will carry her when her set is over." "So I tell him, okay, write, write, but be sure you write that a Jew and an
Arab together are making it possible."

"Good. I'm sure he will. The Voice is nothing if not political. Even its personals are political."
"Oy! Those lonely people what're advertising their own charms, but their shoe size or foot condition never mentioning."
They conversed for a while about how lonely they each had been before they got together, yet how they'd have croaked of loneliness rather than advertise for companionship, and whether that attitude was a reflection of dignity or repression. It was cozy and sweet lying there talking, and Spike's pain, like the thunderstorm, appeared to have subsided. At least, he was grimacing with less force. Ellen Cherry didn't feel quite ready to broach the subject of the Reverend Buddy Winkler's attack, so she talked about Ultima and the show at the gallery.
"Ultima's probably right, her artists are admitting defeat. The extraterrestrial in the woodpile is that they expect to be rewarded for those defeats every bit as much as if they were triumphs. You get it? They believe they have an ethical, social right to be exhibited and reviewed and collected regardless of their level of skill or verve, and despite the fact that their work is often a deliberate protest against the whole idea of exhibits, reviews, and collections. Anything less, any favoritism shown those with extraordinary abilities, would be unfair, undemocratic, elitist, reactionary, what have you. Jesus! I wasn't aware that mediocrity was such a virtue. But it looks like both democracy and socialism exist to encourage it."
"Maybe you prefer a kink?"
At first, she thought Spike was inviting her to indulge one or the other of their sexual proclivities, and she was taken aback by his bluntness, but then she caught on. "A king? No, not a king. I don't know what system I'd prefer. But I do know that people who really excel at things—whether it's creating art or running a business— hardly ever make a big fuss about equality, except maybe on the scales of justice. Equal opportunity, yes. Equal results, impossible. The ones who're so upset about everybody not being the same, about competition, about standards of quality, about art objects having 'auras' around them, they're usually people with average abilities and average minds. And below average senses of humor. Whether it's a matter of lifting the deprived up or dragging the gifted down, they want everybody to function on their level. Some fun that would be."
"Not to blame, little darlink. It's only the new American dream they share." "Which?"
"In Europe my family left their toes, but to Ellis Island they brought a
dream. The old American dream. Work hard, save your money, be decent, and

success you're bound to have. A business of your own. A house. Nice food on the table, carpets, curtains. Maybe two weeks in December in Miami Beach. Only if you're my family you swim with your slippers on. Okay. I grew up with that dream. But these artists you're describing, the self-promoting crybabies what are intentionally being shlockmeisters and gonifs, they dream the new American dream. And the new one is to achieve wealth and recognition without having the burden of intelligence, talent, sacrifice, or the human values what are universal."
"Yeah, I reckon a lot of people are spoiled like that nowadays. In all fields. At all ages, too. But frankly, Spike, I don't really care if artists work a forty-hour week or obey the Ten Commandments. I don't even give a rat's hair if they pay their dues, just so long as their paintings go the distance. But if they can't provide me with something gorgeous or astonishing to look at, then don't expect me to forgive them their trespasses."
"No, no, little darlink. Everybody must be forgiven."
"Including Buddy Winkler?" At this point, she told Spike about the attack, and sure enough, he was able to comfort her, to make her feel all right about it, to feel all right even about the retreat of Turn Around Norman. He held her and slowly commenced to knead the loaves of her buttocks and the cupcakes of her breasts. Soon, they forgot the physical and mental things that troubled them, respectively. The dolphin carried them to where the crests were wild and bumpy and the troughs salty and deep.
Lost in her ecstasy, Ellen Cherry hadn't realized how vigorously she had begun to buck. Mindlessly, she arched and thrust and thrashed until his moans— not of pleasure but of pain—escalated into a scream that froze the sea around her. Gasping, he rolled off her, off the bed and onto the floor, where in a small pool of vomit, he lay ashen and unconscious.
"Oh, my God!" she cried. "I've killed him."
~
The AIDS epidemic, according to the Reverend Buddy Winkler and his colleagues, was a plague visited upon the earth by Jehovah to punish the sexually adventurous. AIDS was proof positive, they preached, that humanity's days were numbered. The fact that the AIDS toll was a mere drop in the bucket compared to the mortality figures of the fourteenth century, when the bubonic pandemic wiped out a third of the world's population, was not the sort of

information to which the oh-goody-this-must-be-the-end mentality paid much attention. AIDS was tailor-made for the fantasies of the religious right, because it was genitally transmitted.
To more than one congregation on more than one occasion, Buddy had proclaimed, "Man had congress with sheep and generated syphilis. Man had congress with monkeys and generated AIDS."
"So what does that tell us about chicken pox?" Ellen Cherry had asked one day.
"Yeah," said Boomer Petway, "and how about the first man who ever said he was 'sick as a dog? Was he confessing to something? Was that the origin of collie-ra?"
Ellen Cherry: "And was Rhett Butler the pervert who spread scarlet fever?"
Boomer: "And if you had congress with jazz musicians, would you come down with thelonious mumps?"
Well, never mind those two. There was, indeed, an epidemic loose in the land, and if it was hardly apocalyptic, if its victims were few compared to pestilences of the past (just as the casualties of the two world wars were slight compared, for example, to those of the Manchu-Chinese War of 1644), it was nonetheless serious and scary; all the more so because it was sexually transmitted. It led children to associate love with death.
However, it was neither AIDS nor ninja nooky that felled Spike Cohen. While a frantic Ellen Cherry was on her way to the lobby to call for an ambulance, Spike regained consciousness and staggered into the bathroom, where he passed a kidney stone as big as the Ritz.
Within a few days, Spike was hurting again. A second stone, a calcium oxalate crystal, to be precise, lodged in his ureter and, like a pirate radio station, went on the air with a sporadic signal and a musical format programmed by Nazi biologists and prelates from the Inquisition. Spike was admitted to a hospital, where, fighting sound with sound, a technician operating a litho-tripter aimed high-intensity sonar at the caterwauling stone. When the bombardment abated and the decibels cleared, the crystalline concretion remained, nesting in the tube between kidney and bladder like a stork in a chimney.
Medical generals ordered an invasion. A spring-loaded wire device resembling an egg whisk was shoved up Spike's penis and through his bladder on a mission to capture the stone. When it was withdrawn, however, its trap was empty, and X rays revealed that the vicious barnacle, a good six millimeters in

circumference, hadn't budged. Spike was then readied for full-scale surgery. The operation proceeded smoothly until a doctor with a shaky hand (probably the result of golf elbow) accidentally severed the soda-straw ureter, a boo-boo that went unnoticed by the medical team (probably because it was arguing over the fortunes of the Giants and the Jets).
That evening, Spike developed a headache and a slight fever. The nurses didn't regard the condition as unusual, not even when it persisted. Nearly three days passed before it dawned on them that he hadn't urinated since prior to surgery. A resident physician suspected that a third stone was stuck in the uretero-vesical pipe, but X rays failed to turn up one. Bloodwork was requested. The lab fired back an analysis that made Spike's bloodstream read like the gutters of Calcutta. His nitrate levels were practically off the chart, and small wonder, since urine, unable to reach the bladder, had been emptying into his abdominal cavity at the rate of eight hundred cc's a day. In other words, he had enough hot piss in his stomach to fill the combustion chambers of several powerful motorcycles.
By then, Spike was severely nauseated, his face and extremities were swollen, and he was seized by mild convulsions. Medics swarmed over him as if he were the first tee at a brand-new country club. Simultaneously, he was hooked up to a dialysis machine and given a blood transfusion. On the way to the operating theater, his gurney looked like the lead wagon in a caravan of sterilized gypsies. They cut him open again, drained his stomach, and spliced his ureter. It was touch and go for a few hours, but he survived.
His first words to Ellen Cherry, when she was allowed to visit the following day, were: "Hoo boy! I've been shot in the head, I've been treated for kidney stones. Shot in the head is better."
Robust though he was, the triple whammy of kidney stones, uremia, and encore surgery exacted a steep levy on Spike Cohen's constitution. His eleven- day stay in the hospital was followed by a month's recuperation at his Upper West Side flat. Ellen Cherry nursed him during the day, his son and daughter-in- law at night. His son wasted hours trying to convince him to sue his doctors. "A bad hospital it may be, but the New York state lottery it's not," said Spike. "I'm earning my money the old-fashioned way."
Abu visited the convalescent whenever he could, but he had his hands full at the restaurant. Following the publication of the article in the Village Voice, Salome's fame had spread. Patronage of Isaac & Ishmael's had been jacked up

another notch. Abu made a rule that nobody could be seated in the dining room unless they ordered dinner, yet even that harrowing prospect failed to dissuade the crowds. By seven on Friday and Saturday nights, there wasn't an empty seat in the place. Bribe and wheedle though he might, Abu could not influence the bandleader to influence Salome to dance on additional evenings. "I will speak to her from the heart," the toothless musician would promise, pocketing the fifty- dollar bill Abu had offered. "But she is a young girl, she has her studies, she needs her sleep."
Neatly dressed in one of the dark blue pinstriped wool suits that he now wore in all seasons, Abu would sit by Spike's bed, cheering him with tales of the I & I's success and of the attention Salome was calling to their exercise in brotherhood. Abu complained often that he couldn't find a competent partner on the tennis court, and that little white lie cheered Spike as well. Abu's visits were short, however. During most of the daylight hours, Ellen Cherry attended to Spike all by herself. She fed him, bathed him, medicated him, mixed him weak rum punches, and read to him from the poetry of Shakespeare and Pablo Neruda.
"When I was a small boy," said Spike, "my favorite poem was 'There was an old woman who lived in a shoe.'"
"I'm not surprised," said Ellen Cherry.
"I also liked the 'this little piggy went to market' routine, but it made my family very nervous. Especially the 'wee wee wee' part."
Although it left her time for nothing else except her job, Ellen Cherry didn't resent the weeks that she spent as Spike's nursemaid. However, the experience permanently altered the nature of their relationship. Her sexual feelings for him simply evaporated. Perhaps it was his helplessness, perhaps it was an overdose of intimacy. She didn't know what extinguished it, but she knew that the fire was out. They avoided any discussion of the matter, yet Spike obviously sensed the plunge in erotic temperature. As much as he might have yearned to, he made no effort to whistle for the dolphin or to throw an electric blanket over its cool, slick back. Ellen Cherry and Spike remained fast friends, but never again did they ride out to mid-ocean, where the salt spray glittered in her neo-hussy rouge as he trolled for that radiant sea-thing that many men have tasted but no man has fully seen.
*
Spike was as thin and pale as the hoarfrost trim on wolfmother wallpaper when he at last resumed his station behind the reservation desk at Isaac & Ishmael's. It was a peppery Friday evening in early August, and the restaurant

was gearing up for a crush of pita snappers and Salome gawkers. Regulars, such as the team of Moroccan irrigation specialists, the UN's Kurdish translator, and Detective Shaftoe, were at their customary bar stools and tables by five o'clock, prepared to wait a full four hours for the first jingle-bang of the tambourine. By six-thirty, a few smitten Romeos already loitered out front, hoping to catch the dancer's eye when she stepped from the black sedan that always delivered her and picked her up, although the only eye that ever regarded them was the pugnacious one of her chaperon, the bandleader's stout sister. Salome neither looked at nor spoke to anyone, but hugged herself, bashful, remote, self- contained, until the band sounded her opening number, at which point she would throw apart her arms and let the glow spread wherever it might, heating the freshly shaved cheeks of diplomats, ripening the green olives in their martinis. "Belly dancers are nothing new in New York," reported the Village Voice. "They have bumped and shimmied here since Little Egypt's gyrations upstaged the revolutionary flickers of the prototype television at the 1939 World's Fair. From 1940 on, there have been in the city a minimum of two or three Middle Eastern or Greek clubs featuring practitioners of that ancient art. But Manhattan has never seen a belly dancer such as Isaac & Ishmael's young Salome."
At 6:50, the telephone rang. "Isaac and Ishmael's," Spike answered. "We're full up already." He listened for a moment, then signaled Ellen Cherry. "For you," he called, wagging the receiver. "Sounds like your mama."
"I'll take it in the kitchen. I'm sorry, Spike. I told them never to call here during dinner."
"Not to worry. We're full up."
"Yeah, but I got a ton of falafel to sling."
"Not to worry. So, I'll take your tables. It's only for the dancing lady what
they're hungry."
"Well now, don't you overdo and have a relapse on me. I want to go buy
paints and canvas tomorrow."
Brushing aside a succession of anonymous hands that reached to pat her
buttocks or squeeze her thighs, Ellen Cherry made her way to the kitchen, where she lifted the receiver from the wall extension and learned that her daddy was dead.
Embalmed and in his coffin, Verlin Charles still smelled of mildewed washcloth, a defiance of sorts that somehow comforted Ellen Cherry. Verlin was taking it with him, so to speak.

She hovered over the open casket, reminiscing about things they'd done together, things he'd done for her: the dolls and paint sets he provided, the movies she watched from his lap, the drives to Florida during which he so frequently inquired if "daddy's girl" needed a Coke or a hamburger or to pee-pee (when all she really wanted was to perfect her eye game). Tearfully, she shuffled the deck of memory, dealing out the cards of thoughtfulness, fun, and sacrifice that demonstrated his love—yet over and over again the black ace turned up to take the trick: the reminder of that day he had yanked her out of art class, rubbed raw her face, and called her "Jezebel." It seemed to obscure everything else he had contributed to her development and happiness. She wondered if that was natural, if others harbored grudges against essentially loving parents, even after they were gone. If she were to die tomorrow, would she be remembered for a few good paintings, a few acts of kindness, or for her selfishness and spite, particularly in regard to Boomer Petway? She was weeping as much for herself as for her father. When she noticed that the mortician had applied a considerable amount of cosmetics to Verlin's countenance, an ironic smile sliced through the tears.
Patsy came to stand beside her. "It was the football that killed him," Patsy said.
"What're you talking about, mama? Daddy hasn't played football since he was a kid."
"Not playing it, watching it. He used up his heart in front of that blessed set."
Later, one of the pallbearers told Ellen Cherry that Verlin had been watching a Washington Redskins exhibition game when he stood and clutched his chest. "Wasn't the excitement," the man confided. "It was the long hours and the snacks."
The Reverend Buddy Winkler avoided any mention of football or television in his eulogy, although he did relate a couple of incidents that had to do with the jigging of frogs. The preacher was eloquent, even Ellen Cherry had to admit it. His saxophone blew joy into the dead man's eyes, blew peace into his exploded ticker. With hypnotic cadences, he reproduced for the bland Baptist mourners the shadow that a newborn baby casts, then made the shadow grow long and pointed until it ended like a church spire back in God's own sky. "The way down is the way up," he said, quoting a Greek philosopher to a group of people who seldom accepted as truth any word that hadn't come directly from the Bible or a southern politician.

Ellen Cherry wanted to ask Buddy what he was doing mouthing the aphorism of a pagan in the house of Jehovah, but she didn't dare get close to him. At the Charles house following the burial, he spent most of his time with his arm around Patsy, occasionally pulling her distraught face to his Armani lapel. Whenever he looked in Ellen Cherry's direction, his teeth would grind like a slow divorce. Fortunately, he returned to New York the next morning.
The day after that, in the late afternoon, Ellen Cherry went back. Patsy had insisted. "You got your job, honey. Your daddy wouldn't want you to miss any more work. You know how he felt about shirkers and loafers."
Even so, Ellen Cherry was reluctant to leave until Patsy revealed her own plans to come to Manhattan. "I'm in shock right now. Oh, mercy, I'm in a pile of shock. But I'll get over it in time, and when I do, well, there's not diddly-squat for me in Colonial Pines. Maybe I'll come up there and live around you for a while. Would that be okay? Your daddy's insurance'll provide a dollar or two and, who knows, maybe I'll turn a right smart profit on this ol' barn."
On the flight from Byrd Field, Ellen Cherry tried unsuccessfully to imagine Patsy without Verlin. For that matter, she couldn't picture the world without him, as insignificant a player upon the world stage as he may have been. The permanent absence of someone who (from her perspective) had always been there, shaping her fundamental experience, her tissue and blood, was overwhelming and unreal. She felt older, more vulnerable, as if a buffer had suddenly crumbled between her and the mortal brink.
The day after the funeral, while she and her mother had sat in front of the floor fan sipping iced tea, Patsy alluded to two miscarriages she had suffered when Ellen Cherry was a tot, one of the lost fetuses, apparently, having been fathered by someone other than Verlin. It was information that Ellen Cherry neither solicited nor desired, but when she tried to change the subject, Patsy had announced, "Now's the time for you to have babies, honey. Directly. And you know why? Having babies messes up your life, but when you're young your life's already messed up, so it's easy to fit in a baby or two."
She supposed Patsy was right about the messed-up part. Her life so far certainly hadn't been any clockwork artichoke, although all around her she saw lives far more scattered and confused. Anyway, unless it was another false alarm, the drawstring on her emotional pajamas seemed to be cinching up.
The skyline of Manhattan came into view. Its towers pierced her grief, her introspection, giving her an unexpected thrill. Richmond was so flat in comparison, Colonial Pines such an innocuous splinter on the maypole of the

world. She felt rather like a bee returning to a great busy hive, but a hive where the drones pilfered the royal jelly, the workers moonlighted as litterbugs, and the queen reigned only so long as she got good reviews in the Times. Jerusalem might be on everybody's mind, but New York was thrill enough for her. "Anything could be happening down there," she marveled, but from her present altitude, of course, she could discern nothing specific. Not one jay feather of smoke, one tabby wail of siren reached her aircraft from the fire that was burning in St. Patrick's Cathedral.
~
Either one of you ever have social interaction with a bullet?" Can o' Beans's inquiry had gone unanswered. Dirty Sock and Spoon had been preoccupied with the crowd that was gathering by the cathedral steps to heed or observe the Reverend Buddy Winkler. A Village Voice reporter, the same enterprising newshound who had written about Salome, had published a feature on the preacher, and several TV stations had picked it up (as eventually they would also do with the Salome story). As a result, regular passersby were paying Buddy more attention, and some people were visiting that block of Fifth Avenue deliberately to see the notorious radio evangelist who, in the sandal steps of his Lord Jesus, was now making his pitch in the streets. The resulting increase in pedestrian congestion concerned municipal officials, but due to the prevalence of millennial hysteria and the political power of the Christian right, they had been reluctant to interfere. Secretly, City Hall was hoping that some group such as Freedom From Religion would file a complaint.
"I daresay Miss Spoon would not have crossed paths with a bullet of any caliber, but you, Mr. Sock, did relate that you'd once gone along on an expedition to bag bullfrogs. ..."
"Jigging," growled Dirty Sock. "They didn't blow 'em out of the goddamned water for Christ's sake." He returned his attention to the sidewalk. "That ol' boy Norman could flat out turn around, but this here fellow knows how to butter his bread."
"Personally, I'd enjoy the opportunity to speak with some bullets, find out what goes on inside those little pointed heads."
The bean can's interest in bullets had been sparked by a news broadcast that had drifted in through the grate. In a widely publicized effort to reduce fatalities

among unarmed Palestinian demonstrators, the Israeli military had begun to fire wooden or plastic bullets in its rifles. To the contrary, however, fatal shootings had increased. American and European nurses and doctors doing volunteer service in West Bank hospitals reported that Israeli soldiers, deprived of the power of lead, were now shooting the young Arabs in the head at such close range that even a plastic bullet could cause death or brain damage. "Where there's a will there's a way," said Can o' Beans disparagingly. He/she decided that if he/she succeeded in reaching Jerusalem, he/she would endeavor to interview a bullet or two. Beneath the facade of absolute stoicism that they, like all objects, presented to the animate-dominated world, did bullets have hopes, dreams, and fears? Did the inner life of a wooden bullet differ greatly from that of the one that wore a full metal jacket?
If I ever make it to Jerusalem. That thought (tinged with fatalism, perhaps) scarcely had passed through what, in a bean can, amounted to a brain, when Painted Stick and Conch Shell called him/her, and the sock and spoon, away from their corroded little window on the world to announce that upon that very day they were going to make their move.
*
"Our timing must be exact," said Conch Shell. "Even so, danger will be upmost. None of you should feel obligated to participate."
So eager were Can o' Beans and Dirty Sock to hit the road (they were mutants now, no longer able to be satisfied with the sedentariness of their kind) that they committed themselves even before they heard the plan. Spoon gave a tinkly little shiver and weakly cast her lot with the rest.
Painted Stick was going to set a fire in the basement. It would have to be set while there was still enough light for smoke to be seen pouring out of the grate, yet close enough to nightfall so that the objects might take advantage of darkness once they were outside the cathedral. Calling upon his knowledge of matters celestial, Painted Stick would calculate the precise moment of truth. Ideally, the smoke should be observed by passersby no more than two minutes before the final colors of twilight faded. An alarm would have to be sounded at once, of course: if the blaze got out of control, the objects might perish, one and all. Spoon alone had a chance to survive an inferno, yet even she might melt into a metallic lump more unaesthetic and more undistinguished than the present configuration of Can o' Beans. Spoon shuddered again. They each heard the tinkle.
"Well now, how in tarnation do you expect to start this here fire?" asked the

sock.
"Friction," replied the stick.
"And how ..." began Can o' Beans. He/she fell silent. Because, as usual,
he/she was curious about such things, he/she was about to ask Painted Stick how he would feel if this famous cathedral burned to the ground just to facilitate their escape. But the can decided not to burden Painted Stick, who had whipped one man and tripped a second, with another "moral" issue. Besides, Can o' Beans was well aware that more than one destructive fire of "unknown origin" secretly had been started by inanimate objects. Even humans referred to "spontaneous combustion." They just didn't realize that it could be an act of will.
In a far corner of the cellar, Painted Stick had overturned an old packing crate. The wood shavings that had spilled out were then spooned by the spoon and tamped by the stick into the shell and the stocking, who transported the stuff in their respective cavities to a spot on the floor beneath the grate. "Mr. Sock looks as if he's been taking steroids," said Can o' Beans of his bulging comrade. "Or else he's been fattened for pâté de sock gras." Spoon giggled. Dirty Sock growled.
Atop the heap of curly shavings, which Dirty Sock said reminded him of Miss Charles's hairdo, they had nudged, pushed, and shoved, each according to his or her or his/her own abilities, several dry, dusty hymnals. In the same manner, they added several lengths of wood from a broken pew. Then they stepped back to survey their pyre. "I daresay no scout troop could do better," remarked Can o' Beans.
"You dare said it," said Dirty Sock.
Spoon had giggled again, more from nervousness than amusement.
At twilight, they had assumed their stations. Spoon and Dirty Sock, she all
ashiver, he irritated by a piece of wood shaving that had caught in his threads, perched on the ledge before the grate. Conch Shell and Can o' Beans were by the door, positioned so that when it swung open, they would be hidden behind it. Painted Stick was at the edge of the pyre itself, balancing upright on his tapered tip.
They waited.
And waited.
And when the angle and composition of the dying light was to his
satisfaction, the stick commenced to twirl. For some reason, each of the others, watching him, thought briefly of Turn Around Norman, although Norman

obviously was a slow train to Leadville compared to the rapidly spinning stick. Around and around the ancient talisman twirled, twirling in a frenzy, like a blind man's cane in a whirlpool, like the bit of a diamond cutter's drill.
They watched.
And watched.
And grew anxious.
But at last a shaving began to smolder. Then another. And another. The first
spark popped like a baby's bloody head emerging from an oxygen womb. Twins. Quintuplets. Then, an entire population flared, and the shadow of the scorched stick was thrown, tall and mysterious, against a fire-lit wall.
By the time that Ellen Cherry Charles—husbandless, loverless, and now fatherless—returned her seat back to an upright position in preparation for landing at La Guardia, an advance wave of firefighters was cautiously opening St. Patrick's sub-basement door. Precisely at that moment, Spoon, Dirty Sock, and Painted Stick squirmed through the bars and out onto the sidewalk. There they were concealed in a hedgerow of smoke. Policemen already had cordoned off the block. So far, so good.
"If only it will go half this smoothly for the others," said Spoon. "Yep," said Dirty Sock. "We got it made compared to them two." Hardly had the objects spoken when a man appeared out of the smoke, a tall, gaunt man who, though attired in a fifteen-hundred-dollar suit, managed to look as cheap as chewing gum. A shock of recognition was followed by the greater shock of capture. Before she could say "Mother Mary" or "white chocolate mousse," Spoon was yanked from the pavement by the man's right hand. Just as suddenly, his left hand snatched up Painted Stick. He squatted for a moment to consider Dirty Sock, but drew back with a show of disgust. Leaving the begrimed garment where it lay, he walked away, clutching and studying the utensil and the wand.
Buddy Winkler had lingered near St. Patrick's that dusk somewhat beyond his usual hour of departure. He had been conversing with a professed supporter, a well-dressed stranger who'd intimated interest in financially supporting any cause that might expedite Armageddon. "Let's you and me talk us some turkey," said Buddy, and, indeed, they had been all agobble when they noticed smoke streaming from a grate at the base of the cathedral. The preacher had been rather surprised by the speed and efficiency with which the stranger used a police call box to summon the fire department.

When the first squad car had arrived, its driver had wanted to question Bud about the fire.
"No, no. This is the Reverend Buddy Winkler," the stranger intervened. "And who da fuck are you?"
In response, the stranger had removed his wallet and flashed some token of
identification that looked suspiciously less like a Visa Gold Card than a badge. The cop nodded and turned his attention to clearing the area. "Reckon I should mosey on out of the way," said Buddy. "Maybe you and me can chew the fat on some more collected occasion." He nodded at the smoking cathedral. "Sure hope the cod-chompers don't lose no prime real estate."
With that, Buddy turned and headed for the barricades. Cursing him, firemen brushed past him on their way up the steps. He disappeared momentarily in belches of smoke. "Bet the archbishop's faggots forgot to turn off the heat under the chowder," he joked. " 'Course, too, they might've been warming up some of that KY Jelly." He'd closed his eyes against the sting of the smoke, and it was at the instant of their cautious reopening that he spotted the things on the sidewalk.
His retrieval of them, two of them, had been purely instinctive, although it quickly occurred to him that the spoon was identical to the one that his wanton niece had painted pictures of, and that the satanic-looking stick was the one that had been used to trip him up a few weeks prior. He'd had a funny feeling about the grate in that cathedral for a while now, a feeling as if something unnatural and unrighteous was being carried on behind it. Something that might have been intended to personally bug him. It wasn't anything he could speak about. He was reluctant to think about it in any but the most superficial way. Oddly enough, he didn't blame the Catholics. Intuition led him to suspect that whatever it was was somehow connected to that lunkhead who used to stand stock-still down the street there, fooling gullible pseudointellectuals such as Ellen Cherry Charles into believing he was turning around. Whatever it was, it was also connected to these things he'd found on the sidewalk. Well, he would paint their little red wagon blue! He'd just take their playthings with him! Except for the sock, of course. Let the Devil dress his hoof in that noxious stocking!
Dirty Sock folded himself into a tiny wad and scrunched against the wall. Toward dawn, stymied and alone, he slithered back through the grate into the fire-blackened cellar of St. Patrick's. Some say that he is there still. That he haunts the cathedral like a vile Protestant wraith, causing altar boys to spill the

wine, dignified gentlemen to break wind during confession, bishops to lapse into pig Latin, and young mothers to agitate for birth control. It is even rumored that on cold winter nights, he weights himself with a lump or two of coal and plays eerie Hank Williams riffs on the organ. Or that he will slither out of the grate just long enough to wrap himself around the ankle of a matronly shopper, making her squeal and drop the parcels she is fetching home from Saks. "Heh-heh-heh," he's reported to chuckle as he darts back into his den.
Cooler heads say that he's not in the church at all, but, rather, that he's gone to that place where so very many socks go, when, in a manner most unaccountable, they vanish from laundry machines all over America; that he's entered another dimension, as it were; a parallel universe of cotton, wool, and polyester: the Planet of the Lost Socks.
In either case, like numerous pilgrims before him, Dirty Sock was never to reach far Jerusalem. It is possible, however, that Jerusalem will yet come to him.
In regard to Jerusalem, at least, the other locomotive objects fared better than the sock.
Buddy Winkler carried Spoon and Painted Stick to the handsome midtown apartment that the Third Temple Platoon had leased for him (and which he'd turned into a bit of a sty), where, with a mixture of curiosity and revulsion, he scrutinized them for a while longer before shutting them away in his closet. He sealed the door with a prayer. "Lord Jesus, if these here items be possessed of the demonic, please protect your loving and no-account servant from their evil influences."
No sooner had Buddy slammed the closet door than a hysterical Spoon, noting the wide gaps between the louvers, began urging Painted Stick to attack. "Bash him on the noggin," said Spoon, "and let's get out of here!" Surprised by her assertiveness and sensitive about bashing animate noggins, the stick advised her to cool down, to wait to see what fortune would bring.
During the night, Spoon did, indeed, regain a measure of equilibrium, but come morning, when they heard the preacher stir, she began anew her plea for a bash and a dash. "Silence!" ordered the decorated rod. "What can be the matter? Did you not overhear last evening the auspicious designs of our captor?"
The designs to which Painted Stick referred were revealed in a conversation the Reverend Buddy Winkler had had around midnight with a stealthy visitor. "Sorry to ask you to meet me here, rabbi,"
Buddy had said, "but this dad-blasted phone is as good as tapped. An

undercover cop of unknown liberal affiliation inveigled me earlier this very day. He was a slick sucker, though I don't believe he more than covered the bottom of his bucket outta my loose pump. Anyways, it's a sign, a sign doubtless provided by the Almighty, that we gotta take us some care. For that reason, I want you to know that I plan to ship this here possibly incriminatin' stuff on over to Jerusalem tomorrow or the next day. Clear it offen the premises. My boy Boomer Petway can just as well store it over there."
"Did you not hear that?" asked the stick. "This man shall be shipping 'stuff to Jerusalem. And you and I shall ship along with it."
"Oh, dear," Spoon gulped. "But what about the others?"
"There is nothing we can do for them now. Their fate is in the stars. Fortunately, Conch Shell is on the best of terms with starlight."
It took several hours for Conch Shell and Can o' Beans to get out of the cathedral. Soon after the fire hoses were dragged in, they scooted from their hiding place behind the door and began their laborious and frightening ascent of the stairs. Before they reached the basement level, two firemen rushed by without seeing them. In the basement, they hid for thirty minutes in a crate of incense. "Once more I'm thankful I'm not human," said the bean can. "If we had noses, this powder would asphyxiate us. Of course, if we had noses, Mr. Sock might have gassed us long ago."
The firemen made rather quick work of the blaze. All but one of the engines departed. Its crew hung around outside, enjoying coffee and doughnuts and talking football with the cops. They were making certain the fire didn't flare up again. Eventually, the arson squad arrived to launch its investigation. By that time, the shell and the can, like a couple of plaster-cast salmon climbing a dry fish ladder, had clumped safely to the main floor, where they took refuge beneath a pew in the nave.
Gradually, the men cleared out until only one investigator, the archbishop's secretary, and the chief custodian were left. For a time, the objects feared they might be trapped in the nave, destined to be knelt upon at Sunday mass. However, the secretary suggested that the front doors be propped open to air out the place, which smelled pungently of woodsmoke and cremated hymnals. Shortly thereafter.
Can o' Beans and Conch Shell were on the night-town streets, the thousand pulses of the city beating like a thousand phosphorescent wings against their steel and calcium hides.

The balled-up sock was crouched a yard past the Fifty-first Street end of the grate. Turning downtown, as they had been instructed, Can o' Beans and Conch Shell didn't see Dirty Sock. He didn't see them. Keeping to the shadows, they hastily crossed Fiftieth, rounded the corner of Forty-ninth, and ducked into the cement-dusted labyrinth of a construction site. They were sorely disappointed that stick, spoon, and sock weren't awaiting them there.
"Jilted!" said Can o' Beans. "Now what do we do?" "We shall linger for a bit. There are too many humans about at this hour. But if our companions have not shown themselves by moonset, we shall continue on our own to the river. Thence the sea."
A pensive Conch Shell leaned to rest against a piece of Styrofoam. It proved to be a food carton, left by a gastronomically adventurous construction worker who had purchased his lunch that noon from a nearby Japanese restaurant. The thrust of the shell's spiky whorls tipped the carton over, causing it to expel from its chamber a quivering blob of repulsive white custard. "Go-oo- oo-oo-od-od e-e-e-ev-ev-ev-ning-ning," said the blob, continuing to vibrate like the larynx of an albino soprano.
"And what, pray tell," asked the startled shell, "might you be?" When at last it had ceased to jiggle, the strange life form replied, "You can call me tofu. Or you can call me dofu. But you doesn't have to call me bean curd."
For seventy-two hours, Conch Shell and Can o' Beans scurried from hiding place to hiding place along New York's waterfront, hoping, in vain, for a rendezvous with their fellows. Finally, at approximately eleven o'clock on the third night, an August night, a night as warm and gamey as turtle soup, the shell instructed the bean can to mount her, and with the deformed container nestled in her nacreous cockpit (a little too precariously to be to their liking), she slipped into the greasy harbor and swam away.
The weight of the can forced her to ride low in the water. Every gentle wave lapped against her passenger, and her worry was that the more powerful waves of the open ocean would wash the can from its niche. She warned Can o' Beans of the dashings and drownings that might await them, but when they did exit the harbor the next morning and the first row of whitecaps set him/her to rattling in her aperture, he/she yelled "Surfs up!", and whooping like an exuberant schoolboy/girl, he/she did his/her toeless best to hang ten.
"We travel slowly," said Conch Shell, "and we have such a long, long distance to go. If we should encounter a storm . . ."

"Let 'er blow!" shouted Can o' Beans. Then, more quietly, he/she added, "Look, Miss Shell, it's not every tin of prepared carbohydrates that gets to ride the waves, especially not in such a pretty boat. I would be prevaricating were I not to admit that both the masculine and feminine aspects of my nature are aroused by the accommodations on this cruise. Now don't blush. And don't fret. Think about the Third Temple of Jerusalem and what role it is that you're destined to play therein. As for me, my energy has been too long centered in my intellect. I'm having the time of my life."
Conch Shell said nothing further, but concentrated on the sea and on keeping her wobbly passenger upright in her crevice. Garlands of seaweed encircled her like composted leis, crabs serenaded her with their ñatiron fiddles, and schools of shad bumped her along with their noses. Hardly was she out of sight of the Statue of Liberty than several cargo ships overtook her. And in the hold of one of them, the one that gave her the greatest problem with its wake, secreted amidst odd trappings and paraphernalia in a crate addressed to Randolph Petway III, huddled a pair of mutated objects of her long and fond acquaintance.
~
Husbandless, loverless, and now fatherless, Ellen Cherry became wife, mistress, and daughter of the I & I. The restaurant's staff had been virtually doubled, and once more she found herself in a managerial position. She might have preferred to remain simply a waitress, but it wasn't possible. By the middle of September, the situation there was almost out of hand, and her expertise and energy were much in demand.
Salome was New York's new queen of the night. Finding her refreshing compared to the aggressive, overdressed publicity sluts who normally competed for the crown, the press doted on her. Yet the more that was written about her, the more mysterious she seemed, and the greater her mystery, the more attention she attracted. In a revolutionary reversal, the hip, the cool, and the famous were among the last to discover her. For months they resisted, but, one by one, two by two, they swallowed their pride, deserted Nell's, 6 Bond Street, M.K., and Payday, to limo and taxi to United Nations Plaza, where, humiliated, they lined up with squares from the suburbs, whining to be let in. Occasionally, a genuine platinum-plated celebrity would appear at the door and petition for admission,

but Abu and Spike played no favorites: it was first come, first served at Isaac & Ishmael's, although once Abu did allow Debra Winger to watch the show from the kitchen after she offered to help with the dishes.
In each and every interview they granted, Abu and Spike insisted that there be some mention of the restaurant's raison d'être and of its troubled history, As a result, their experiment in Arab-Jewish camaraderie received notice beyond their wildest dreams. The clippings and videotapes that they collected were dutifully copied and dispatched to Jerusalem.
"Do not get sentimental over us," Abu warned journalists. "We are a tiny and slightly mad oasis in a vast desert. We do what we do, make the statement we make, because of who we are, not because we think we are going to change the Middle East."
Added Spike, "But what we do is necessary already, even if nobody else follows our suit."
In late September, the I & I actually received a fairly major humanitarian award. It was the young belly dancer, however, it was Salome, who was the center of attention. As far as New York was concerned, she was the I & I's meat, and gravy, too; the brotherhood bit was merely an obligatory garnish of parsley.
For a few weeks, the restaurant brought in the orchestra on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, and Thursdays, as well, and hired two experienced belly dancers to shimmy on those nights. In terms of business, the expanded schedule was not unsuccessful, but on Spike and Abu's excitement meter, it failed to even breathe on the needle. The new dancers, veteran performers though they were, were fluoridated tap water compared to Salome's gourd of spiced mare's milk. They were adequate, but as Abu put it, "To the connoisseur, adequacy is insulting." Besides, old customers were complaining that to accommodate the floor show, the super-duper TV was being switched off, usually at the most crucial point in a ball game. Spike and Abu fired the dancers and returned the band to its Friday- Saturday schedule.
The East Indian restaurant next door, completely overshadowed even though it employed a superior chef, offered to sell out to the Arab and the Jew so that they could enlarge their premises. Abu and Spike declined. "What we have already we're sticking to already," said Spike. And what they had was a reticent sixteen-year-old student nurse (Shaftoe was correct) who refused to speak with producers of "The Tonight Show" when they approached her in the cafeteria at Bellevue Hospital, waving a contract so briskly that it cooled off her double order of french fries. (Shaftoe also revealed—nobody knew where he was

getting his information—that the girl wore heavy horn-rimmed glasses when she studied or watched cartoons, a fact later confirmed by a writer for Newsweek, prompting dozens of men and women with perfect vision to start showing up at UN Plaza in spectacles of consummate dorkiness.)
What they had was a squirmy, self-conscious, adolescent girl who redefined the art of belly dancing without really trying, like a som-nambulant who writes original love poems in her sleep. What they had was a virgin (the bandleader swore that she was!) who could make men (and a few women, too) come without touching them, without even looking at them. What they had was a callow child-woman who, wielding a tube of cheap lipstick, marked a ruby X on the sternum of modern, sophisticated, cynical Manhattan, then gunned its heart full of deep emotions and silly ideas.
"The belly dance began as a kind of practical feminist yoga," Abu explained on more than one occasion. "It was developed in the Levant hundreds, maybe thousands, of years ago as a way to tone certain muscles and loosen others, so that women could give birth more easily, with less pain. It also reduced menstrual cramps. Now I am merely guessing, but I imagine that women got together to do these exercises, rather like a contemporary aerobics class, and the menfolk were intrigued in spite of themselves. They found the workouts entertaining or prurient or both. Gradually, belly dancing, like so many other things, drifted out of its original context and became mannered, stylized, self-referential."
"And is Salome restoring some of the original flavor, the old moves?" "How would I know? For that matter, how would she know?"
"Well, she claims she's a Canaanite."
"A conceit, obviously. Those Canaanites who were not exterminated by the
Hebrews were absorbed by them. What Salome said, actually, was, 'I'm one of those Canaanite girls whose mothers picked flowers for the altars of Jerusalem.' A conceit, but I like it. It is musical. A little poem. What I think she is trying to say, in her romantic, adolescent way—and I forbid you to quote me on this—is that she is half Arabic, half Jewish. She would have suffered somewhat because of this, and styling herself a Canaanite, a member of a lost race, is her poetic way of dealing with that confusion, that pain. Pure speculation, mind you. Detective Shaftoe, whose information is usually reliable, has said nothing of the sort."

There was a way in which Ellen Cherry grew to resent both the I & I and its star attraction. The more successful the restaurant became, the more of her time and energy it sapped. She was happy for her employers, but once again her return to painting had been postponed (not that any thundering stampede of great ideas was rushing toward the cliffs of her cerebrum, anxious to throw itself headlong into paint jars down below). As for Salome, she, like Boomer, seemed to have succeeded wildly without really working at it (although how could a chagrined Ellen Cherry be sure that Salome hadn't spent most of her young life practicing those moves that she executed with such hesitant if not indifferent grace, and, moreover, wasn't it Ellen Cherry who had asserted that she didn't care whether or not artists paid their dues so long as the end product sprayed Windex on the panes of perception?). Contradiction may be an unavoidable trait in a many-faceted sensibility in an expanding universe, but bitterness is reductive in the most trivializing way, and Ellen Cherry was aware that it was her fate to have to struggle against it. Over and over, she reminded herself how fortunate she was to have landed her life in a situation where strange things could happen to it. "Why, if I hadn't learned the eye game when I was little, I could be in Colonial Pines right now, washing and ironing some clodhopper's shorts."
Husbandless, loverless, and now fatherless, Ellen Cherry couldn't have been unaware that men's shorts definitely were one item missing from any inventory of her world. It was as if some monster Kali-Hoover had sucked all the primary shorts-wearers out of her life. Of course, there was Abu. And Spike, in a recycled guise. And no lack of male energy among the clientele at the I & I. On the other hand, what had become of Turn Around Norman? And that flirty Raoul? They, too, had been vacuumed up off that Middle Eastern rug that seemed to cover the earth in every direction as far as her eyes could see.
She finally got a telephone installed in her apartment so that she could stay in closer contact with Patsy; she exchanged friendly but noncommittal letters with Boomer; she took over the lunch operation at the restaurant, often sticking around late on Fridays and Saturdays to help out with dinner and, in her words, "to watch men go goofy over that spastic little cunt, skinny legs and all"; and— what else? Not much. In her underwear drawer, the gossip dwindled to such a degree that Daruma thought the panties might be actually approaching a Zen state.
"Ripples now vanish from carp pool of mind," said the vibrator approvingly. Out on the Atlantic, however, ripples were riotous, threatening almost incessantly to sweep Can o' Beans from the seashell's hold. And at Isaac

& Ishmael's, a new ripple was about to jar things, as well.
~
The hour was 4:00 P.M., the day Monday, the month September. Late September. So late that you'd have to look closely to distinguish it from October. Dip a slice of bread in batter. That's September: yellow gold, soft, and sticky. Fry the bread. Now you have October:
chewier, drier, streaked with browns. The day in question fell somewhere in the middle of the french toast process. A hint of chilled marmalade in the air.
In the I & I bar, regulars were assembling to watch Monday night football on the mammoth screen. Kickoff was hours away, however, and the lounge chatter ran to other things. To be precise, one other thing.
"She looks so bored all the time."
"Not bored. She looks scared."
"Oh, I don't know ..."
"Both. She looks bored and scared. That's what drives me crazy. She gives
the impression that if you took her to bed, she'd look at you like that from start to finish."
"You're right."
"It ees true."
"She wouldn't just lie there. She'd give you a ride like a wild mule. But all
through it, she'd look bored and scared. Hoo! It's making me crazy. I can't sleep anymore for thinking about it."
"He ees right. In zee movies, zee women zat are making zee love are looking, how you say, carry away. Zey look carry away and grateful. A mistake. How much more excitement if zey are looking scared and bored. Then men are jump out of zee seats and rush zee screen. Irresistible!"
"It's her age, that's all."
"Yeah, you guys. She looks at you like you bore and scare her because she's young enough to be your daughter."
"If she's my daughter, I'd be in jail."
"That's sick. But me, too."
There was a spill of uncomfortable laughter. A waiter arrived with a tray of
falafel, the one item on the menu that didn't taste as if it had been scraped off the wick of Aladdin's lamp.

"Anyway, it isn't her face or its expression. It's her body, the way she moves it."
"Oui! Yes. Zose leetle teeties, how she set zem to vibrating! Zey could wheep zee eggs for souffle."
"I have seen hundreds of belly dancers. Hundreds. My cousin could dance this dance better than any woman in Istanbul. But this Salome girl who dances here ..."
"She's the best. Her movements are softer and sweeter, but at the same time very, very strong. Her dancing is ..."
"Zilch."
The man who spoke was Detective Shaftoe. He'd had his face in a beer mug, and it was the first thing he'd said since he ambled in. They stared at him in disbelief.
"Pardon?"
"Zilch?"
"Nothing. The dances she does here are nothing. They're baby dances. In
more ways than one."
"What do you mean?" The men respected the opinions of the muscular
black man. After all, he used to play football. And he often seemed to know things about Salome that nobody else knew.
"I mean that if you think what she does here is so goddamned hot, you ought to see her do the Dance of the Seven Veils."
Under questioning, Shaftoe admitted that he had never seen this "Dance of the Seven Veils." He'd only heard reports. But his unidentified sources assured him that if Salome ever performed it, which she probably wouldn't, all of the other dances she had done would seem prissy, uncolored, and commonplace in comparison.
The lounge fell silent and remained that way through most of Monday night football.
Word spread like a skin disease in a nudist colony. Hardly a customer, new or old, passed through the door of the I & I without asking Spike, "When's she going to do the Dance of the Seven Veils?" During Salome's performances, between numbers, patrons would call out, "Dance of the Seven Veils!" as if requesting a favorite tune from a rock star. The first couple of times that happened, she looked as startled as if someone had pulled a gun, but later on, when she grew accustomed to "Do the Seven Veils!" the raccoon fingers of a

small dark smile would toy with the meat of her upper lip, and ever so gently and briefly, she would shake her head.
A negative head shake was all that Spike and Abu got from Salome, as well. They pleaded their case before the bandleader, who behaved as if his dental deficit was impairing his hearing. "Maybe someday," he would say, a little wistfully, looking off into the distance. "Someday when the apricots are blooming. . . ."
Abu was familiar enough with Arabic idioms to know that that little phrase meant roughly the same as, "It'll be a cold day in hell."
He seized the lapel of the old man's shiny blue suit. "Tell her if she will do the seven veils dance, I will double her pay."
The bandleader tapped his own chest. "Also?" he asked.
"When the apricots bloom!" shot back Abu. "You are being paid extra as it is."
The conductor walked away, leaving Abu to simmer like a pot of turshi. Abu conferred with Spike. The two of them were as intrigued with the legendary dance as anybody else. The following week, Abu made another offer. "If Salome will perform the Dance of the Seven Veils just once, we will pay her triple and you double, for that one evening and that evening only."
Showing gums as pink and smooth as Conch Shell's aperture, the bandleader vowed to do his utmost. However, the next evening, the old drooler took Abu aside to inform him that it was no use.
"Not even for triple salary?"
"It is not a matter of money, my generous benefactor. There is involved the matter of tradition. There is likewise involved the secrets of women, little that we men care of such things. There is likewise involved personal disposition. The girl is of high intelligence for a girl. She is the youngest girl to study at the Hospital Bellevue. And she wishes to go to her homeland to be nursing her people. I am sorry, dear sir, but the girl will never do this dance."
"Never?"
"Well. Maybe someday. When the—"
"Apricots bloom." Abu finished his sentence for him and chased him out of
the office.
~

Ellen Cherry answered the reservation desk phone on the October afternoon that the I & I received a bomb threat, the first in many months. Prior to joining in the evacuation of the building, she called her employers at their tennis club. They arrived on the scene in white linen pants and white cotton sweaters. Spike was shod in white tennis sneakers, but Abu had replaced his Nikes with black leather dress shoes. The flashing red lights of the bomb squad van were reflected on their plain toes.
"Somebody is just doing this for old times' sake," Abu said, smiling. "Who would have thought that religious terrorists could be sentimental?"
"No," said Spike. "I'm thinking it's the cops what're making the threat. They got a party scheduled and are short on liquor."
"You all aren't taking this very seriously," said Ellen Cherry.
Spike touched the scars on his forehead. "Of all people, I'm taking it seriously," he said. "But I'm thinking it's just some shikker what's mad because our little lady's not doing the Dance of the Seven Veils."
"What is it with this dance?" asked Ellen Cherry. "Everybody's going on about it like it was free sex and ice cream, but nobody knows spit about it."
"It's that shamus what's started it," said Spike, referring to Shaftoe.
"But it is an actual dance," put in Abu. "And apparently it is included in her repertoire."
"Well, what's so special about it? Isn't it out of the Bible or something?"
It was barely three o'clock, but traffic was already gridlocked at the Forty- ninth Street exit from the FDR Drive. The blaring horns and racing engines were so loud that Ellen Cherry flirted with earache straining to hear Abu's explanation. "No, it is mentioned nowhere by name in the Bible, although Josephus the historian records that it is the dance performed by the biblical Salome at the birthday party of her stepfather, Herod."
"The party where John the Baptist's head jumped out of the cake?"
"So to speak. Salome, incidentally, is the same Semitic word as shalom or salem. In other words, 'peace.' Thus, our beloved city, Jerusalem, is both the House of Peace and the House of the Dancing Girl."
"Of what?"
"The Dancing Girl."
"That's sweet," said Ellen Cherry.
"I like it," said Spike.
Abu went on. "The dance itself predates Herod and that particular Salome,
his stepdaughter. In fact, it is very ancient and thoroughly pagan. It is connected

to the myth of the cyclic death of the sun god. His moon goddess travels to the underworld to rescue him, but to get him back she has to drop one of her seven articles of clothing at each of its seven gates."
"Why?"
"I have no clue. But the reenactment of the story apparently continued well into Roman times. Supported by Hebrews. A dancer would drop a veil at each of the seven gates of the Temple in Jerusalem. At the seventh gate, she was in her birthday suit, though we need not suppose that to be the reason Herod requested the dance at his birthday party. I have read that the veils represented layers of illusion. As each veil peeled away, an illusion was destroyed, until finally some great central mystery of life was revealed."
"What?" asked Ellen Cherry. "I missed that."
Before Abu could repeat the story, word came from across UN Plaza that the police had, indeed, discovered an explosive device planted behind the bamboo matting on a wall near the bandstand. Spike and Abu were astounded. Ellen Cherry thought instantly of Buddy Winkler.
False alarm. The "bomb" proved to be a remote-controlled cassette recorder. Someone, probably a waiter, had hidden it there in order to surreptitiously record the orchestra, Salome on tambourine. "Looking to rake in some extra cash peddling bootleg tapes," Abu conjectured.
"That the old American dream or the new one?" Ellen Cherry asked Spike.
"Better flimflam capitalism than a bomb, already. It's becoming so quiet for the two radishes. Maybe the religious cults are starting to get religion."
"You know," said Ellen Cherry, "I can't figure out the popularity of those cults. Okay, so people can get somebody else to do their thinking for them, what is the big appeal? Are they really that lazy, or is there some secret pleasure in having your mind controlled?"
"I seriously doubt if pleasure is a factor," said Abu. "The level of structure that people seek always is in direct ratio to the amount of chaos they have inside."
"Then ol' Boomer must be as placid as a bucket of doorknobs." Smiling, she mused for a moment about Boomer's antipathy for the straight and narrow. "Too bad you never met him, Mr. Hadee. I have a feeling you two might have gotten along."
Abu and Spike regarded each other oddly. So oddly, Ellen Cherry grew suspicious. She gave them an imploring look. "Shall we tell her?" asked Abu.

"Yeah," answered Spike, "she's deserving to know."
"What is it, you all?"
"Not to worry, little darlink. It's only that in the near future Abu and me
may be meeting your Boomer."
"You see, Cherry, last year Spike and I decided to donate a sculpture for a
war-torn neighborhood that was being restored outside the Jaffa Gate in Jerusalem. We kept our role anonymous because we were having a little trouble here at the restaurant, and our partnership was somewhat controversial. Through intermediaries, we granted a commission to an Israeli sculptor by the name of Zif, Amos Zif."
"Ah-ha!" exclaimed Ellen Cherry. The light bulb above her head was plainly visible.
"Ah-ha, indeed. Now, we learned soon enough that Zif had, himself, taken on a partner, a non-Israeli, which was fine with us since our basic intention was that the monument be transcultural. We also learned from you that Boomer Petway was collaborating on a sculpture in Jerusalem. Only recently, however, did we put two and two together and—"
"Well, I'll be damned," swore Ellen Cherry. "If the world gets any smaller, everybody is going to have to go on a diet."
"Yeah, but a problem we got. This Boomer of yours is making big chickens ..."
"Turkey. A big turkey."
"Turkeys and skyscraper pants and income tax forms for double agents, and this is not the monument what we're dreaming of."
"I see."
"We are a trifle concerned," said Abu. "Concerned about image and statement. So we have demanded to examine a model of the sculpture before it goes any further."
"There or here?"
Simultaneously, there was an Arab shrug and a Jewish shrug, fundamentally similar gestures but as different in nuance as a fez and a yarmulke. "A response we don't got yet," said Spike. Then he switched his attention to the bamboo matting that the police had left hanging from the walls in shreds, like the blouse of a horsewhipped adulteress. "How much does plaster cost?" he asked.
*
Arrangements were made to have Isaac & Ishmael's plastered. The

restaurant would close during Thanksgiving week so that the workmen could take over. "The staff gets a little paid vacation," Abu announced. The staff received the news with glee—conditions had been hectic that autumn—but some of the customers yowled. Not only would they have to go a week without Salome but also Thanksgiving Day was to football what St. Patrick's Day was to grain alcohol.
"Now I will have to stay home and watch the dime-sized footballs," a Greek delegate complained. "And at halftime I will be expected to pay attention to my wife."
"A cowboy's work is never done," said Ellen Cherry, with a yawn.
"I fear that you have produced a non sequitur," announced an Egyptian doctor, who'd become a real smarty-pants with his English.
"Fuck off," said Ellen Cherry, who was in one of her periodic failed-artist snits.
"Oxymoron!" proclaimed the doctor, and then proceeded to tell her why. "One cannot fuck if one is off, one can only fuck when one is on. On top or on the bottom. Is this not true?"
Ellen Cherry sighed. Thanksgiving was still weeks away.
Meanwhile, the shredded bamboo had been temporarily and sloppily stapled back on the walls. The rooms looked as if they were coated with an especially healthy breakfast cereal, a decor known as "Early Roughage." In this high-fiber atmosphere, Salome continued to dance, although she did not dance the Dance of the Seven Veils no matter how many pleading calls for that dance echoed off the bran.
November. Salome danced, Ellen Cherry managed, and the Israelis voted. Boomer wrote Ellen Cherry all about it. Dirty tricks, faked terrorist attacks, lies, threats, and fear tactics of every polecat stripe. Boomer loved it. Naturally, the right won. Conservatives understand Halloween, liberals only understand Christmas. If you want to control a population, don't give it social services, give it a scary adversary. Communism might have become a passé bugaboo, but ah, now there were the hobgoblins of terrorism and drugs with which to frighten and subdue the unthinking masses. "I learned this from reading spy thrillers," wrote Boomer. "If you want to teach kids how the world really works, take away their civics books and assign them some good espionage novels. By the way, can you send me the new Tom Clancy. Can't buy it over here."
Boomer went on to say that with the right wing finally, firmly in power—it

would officially seize the joy stick in January—there was almost certain to be some sort of commotion when his and Zifs monument was unveiled. Then, under the block-print heading FOR YOUR EYES ONLY, he surprised her by describing the monument.
He described it in detail, not only conveying the sculpture's salient formal features but making historical, mythological, and cultural references that he was not likely to have gleaned from any espionage novel. Whatever she thought of the sculpture aesthetically, she had to admire the verbal presentation, and this in spite of the fact that it was executed in a monstrous scrawl. She closed her eyes, and when she did, she saw not the monument that had been so vividly documented but Boomer's own sweet head, hair escaping his scalp like ozone escaping the Arctic. Had her resentment of him given way to longing, a ghostly subconscious longing, a longing that transcended the strictly physical, a longing for his personality, his being, his ... his mind?
Ellen Cherry shook herself out of ludicrous reveries and returned to the letter. It seemed that Boomer was in some trouble with the authorities as a result of a crate of goods that Buddy Winkler had shipped to him. Boomer wasn't familiar with the contents of the crate. Customs officers in Tel Aviv had impounded them, deeming them suspicious. "An investigation is under way, and for the first time in my life I may actually have to stoop to retaining a lawyer. This is the end of something pure and good. Once a fellow breaks down and hires his first attorney, he has gone and booked himself passage aboard the hand basket to Hades."
The epistle closed with a remark of an apparently lascivious nature. Boomer's penmanship deteriorated as the letter progressed, and though she could not wholly comprehend the closure, she would have wagered her last cent that it was lascivious. His signature resembled the mustache of a Latin American dance instructor. To the bottom of the page, however, there was affixed a postscript of almost academically acceptable legibility. Undoubtedly, he had added it after a night's rest. It said:
"On second thought, never mind about the Tom Clancy."
*
November played out its hand: two dark aces, a pair of shivering treys, and
the jack of pumpkins. Salome danced, Ellen Cherry managed, and then the plasterers came and sent both of them home. On the Wednesday before Thanksgiving, Salome (presumably) awoke to study chemistry, change bandages, and sponge froth from the lips of madmen and junkies. Ellen Cherry

(positively) awoke to lie abed and brood. After a time, however, she grew bored with despair, got up, performed her toilette, and reheated a pan of I & I shawarma for breakfast.
The prospect of breakfasting on leftover shawarma was one of the things that was depressing her. It proved to be not all that bad. Any way you sliced it, it beat baba ghanoug. She had once served herself a baba ghanoug breakfast and had actually swallowed a couple of bites before her taste buds warned her that such behavior was in violation of accords of the Geneva Convention.
She had also been feeling sorry for herself for being alone on a major holiday. Yet, while it was true that her mama had flown to Florida for the long weekend, Patsy would be in New York at Christmas, would, in fact, be moving in with her while she searched for an apartment of her own, a quest that could take about half as long as the search for a cure for the common cold. Ellen Cherry realized that she ought to be taking advantage of this final month of privacy. Besides, she had been invited to share Thanksgiving dinner with Abu, Nabila, and family. So she could stow the self-pity— husbandlessness, loverlessness, and fatherlessness notwithstanding.
Having fallen behind on her rent again, she had also been brooding over finances. But, hey, in addition to vacation pay, Spike had handed her a holiday bonus check in the amount of twelve hundred dollars. That would square matters temporarily. As for the long run, she would find a way to survive. She always had. One thing was certain, though: she would not make paintings for Ultima's gallery simply to try to raise cash. As she'd said more than once in regard to painting, "Having to do it for money is a far cry from having to do it because you have to do it."
Which leads to the fourth member of her blues quartet: art-life gloom. Every other person on the street was the failed consort of one muse or another. One met them everywhere. The would-be guitarist who just couldn't find time to practice, the would-be novelist who developed an allergy to solitude, the would- be actress too weak to withstand domestic and maternalistic urges, the would-be poet who found it easier to get drunk on booze than on language, the would-be filmmaker who for lack of pluck ended up in advertising; the singer, the potter, the dancer who for want of that extra volt of verve, that extra enzyme of dedication, that extra candlepower of courage were doomed to paper the walls of their lives with frustrated fantasies and secret dissatisfactions. Ellen Cherry would breakfast on live cockroaches before she'd turn out like them! She swore it.

Abruptly, she rose and spun one of the canvases that leaned against her walls. Without bothering to change out of her kimono, she grabbed a jar of gesso and commenced to white-out the picture. Had Can o' Beans been told of this, holding on for dear life out in the swells of the far Atlantic, he/she might simply have tumbled out of his/her twat-pink bunker and joined the garbage to which starfishes attached themselves at the bottom of the sea.
An ice fog of gesso descended upon the image. Soon its upper half was obscured. That the words "beans" and "prepared in tomato sauce" were still plainly visible below the cloud would have failed to mollify Can o' Beans. "What if an impatient, impertinent Gilbert Stuart had one fine morning imbued with white stuff the top half of his portrait of Washington?" he/she might have asked. "Could schoolchildren look at a double chin and a round white collar and identify them as being first in war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of their countrymen? What if Leonardo ..." No, Can o' Beans would not have been appeased, though he/she might have found it curious that half of his/her portrait was left intact.
The explanation was that Ellen Cherry's gessoing was interrupted by a knocking at the door. "Who is it?" she called.
"Delivery."
"Delivery?"
"Florist."
That was strange. Deliveries, flowers included, were routinely left with the
doorman. Most irregular. Moreover, the voice (male) had a queer accent, rather like a southerner pretending to speak French.
Buddy Winkler came to mind, though it hardly was Buddy's voice, and she experienced a tingle very close to fear.
Keeping the chain fastened, Ellen Cherry cracked the door. There stood a uniformed deliveryman right out of the twenties. Wearing a teal tunic with two rows of brass buttons, jodhpurs stuffed into high lace-up boots, and an officer's cap with a shimmering black brim, he looked like the Great Gatsby's chauffeur. At the same moment that she classified him as an anachronism, she conceded that any number of gentrified uptown flower shops were capable of forcing a deliveryman to dress in such a foolish manner, and she noted, moreover, that he was cradling one of those long green cardboard boxes in which roses often are packaged. He was also holding a beige paper bag, imprinted with the logo of Barnes & Noble, and that struck her as odd, although if he worked for a general

service, she supposed he might deliver books, as well. Still, she didn't like it. There was something wrong with this picture. The dark glasses, for example. The slick little goatee that wouldn't have looked out of place swimming in a Brazilian river. The way he stared at her, nervously licking his lower lip.
With the hand that wasn't gripping the door, she pulled her kimono tight around her throat. If this clown wanted to see tit, he could go to Mardi Gras. She considered opening the door just wide enough to receive the flowers. After all, the jodhpurs had an old-fashioned button fly, not very handy for a rapist. On the other hand, what if the box was from Uncle Buddy, what if it contained something other than roses? No, the guy in the monkey suit was still staring and licking; she had a funny feeling.
"Leave them at the desk in the lobby," she said. After she slammed the door, she put her ear against it. Several minutes passed before he walked down the hall to the elevator. From a window, she saw him leave the Ansonia. He was carrying the bag but not the box. í guess it's okay, she thought, but the next thing she knew he had turned and was looking up at her. Ellen Cherry jumped back from the window just as he waved.
She got dressed in a hurry. She wasn't sure why. A pair of panties was yanked from the drawer so fast it made Daruma's head swim. He perceived it as a blur. "Satori ever fleeting. Clear light enter consciousness like hand of pickpocket. Om wooga nam." His batteries began to hum. Ellen Cherry pulled on a pair of tights, stepped into a wool skirt, drew a bulky cotton sweater over her torso. It was not until she selected shoes, choosing from among those unsullied by sauce de Spike, that it dawned on her that she had dressed for the street rather than for the easel.
The gessoing was not resumed. Nor was the picture turned back to the wall. For the rest of that morning, when she wasn't glancing anxiously out of the window, she stared at half a bean can. I guess I'm not ready, she thought. I'm not ready to paint. If I was ready, if I was in the mood, it'd take more than an incident like this to stop me. Nothing could stop me. Uncle Bud could be at the door with his britches off and a frog jig in his fist, I'd go right on painting. Thought I might be ready but I'm not.
Shortly past noon, the telephone harmonicaed. It was Abu. He and Spike were at the I & I, and they wondered if she would mind coming down. Her counsel was required. It wasn't a restaurant matter, Abu explained, it was something else. Ellen Cherry didn't care what it was. "I'll be there before you can

hang up," she said, and exited so hastily that she forgot a jacket and had to return for it.
Passing through the lobby, she picked up the box of flowers. Presumed flowers. I'll take it with me, she thought. Spike and Mr. Hadee will know what to do. The box was light. It didn't tick. It smelled of refrigeration.
In the Middle East, sand is mixed in with the final coat of plaster. The sand adds texture, but primarily it adds strength. Sand is to the plaster what erudition is to the heart. At Isaac & Ishmael's, plasterers had followed the Levantine practice. It made the place seem more like Jerusalem. When they had knocked off at noon on Wednesday, however, one wall still lacked a final coat. The wall behind the bandstand remained sandless and smooth. "They will be back Monday morning to finish the job," said Abu. "So we shall not be serving lunch on Monday. You, my dear, get an extra day off."
"Fine. I think I like the smooth wall best, though. It's friendlier, in a way." "That is why rough walls are more authentic," said Abu.
"You want Mister Rogers's neighborhood, don't go to Jerusalem," added
Spike. "Howdy Doodyville, Jerusalem is not."
"Jerusalem is a city of deep friendships," Abu explained. "But the trowel of
history has left even affection a bit rough. In Jerusalem, people will risk their lives for you, but they will not tell you to 'have a nice day.' "
Normally, once started on Jerusalem, Spike and Abu would've had to have their tongues impounded before they'd stop. Today, however, as soon as they had conducted a brief tour of the fresh plaster, they hustled Ellen Cherry into the office, where on a desk there sat a brightly painted metal mock-up of what surely was the Petway-Zif collaborative monument.
Judging from the maquette, the base of the sculpture was just as Ultima and Boomer had described it: a pile of boulders from which rose a freestanding, three-dimensional, vertical map of ancient Palestine (or Canaan). Perched atop the map, its feet planted in a jaunty stance right above the northern city of Dan, was a colossal and altogether outlandish figure. Fashioned from welded steel and cast aluminum, painted in stinging hues, the figure could be said to have the body of a human and the head of a donkey, except that the body had a tail and the head was rather anthropomorphic. Its ears, one erect, one folded, were long and hairy; its eyes bulged crazily; the thick lips of its equine muzzle were parted in an insolent grin that revealed a domino set of protruding teeth, goofus teeth,

buck teeth, teeth that would bend the pliers of Nitrous, Greek god of dentistry. This grotesque jackass had a well-proportioned human body, except that where its robe (patterned in Islamic green and Judean blue) hung open, one could see both the milk-swollen breasts of a woman and the relaxed, swinging penis of a natural man. On its left foot, the creature wore a high-heeled slipper, on its right the brogan of a working stiff.
"What do we got here?" asked Spike, "Horace Horsecollar on speedballs? Mister Ed goes to Denmark?"
"You are an artist," said Abu, somewhat tentatively, for he had seen precious little evidence of her art. "What do you make of this cartoon hermaphrodite?"
Ellen Cherry examined the figure closely. Reading about it in Boomer's letter and seeing it in the flesh, so to speak, were two widely different experiences. Not that he hadn't described it accurately, but it was, well, much more vital than she had imagined it, much more dynamic and affecting, even in its reduced scale.
"Hmmm," she said. "Hmmm."
"Hmmm," repeated Spike. "Our little artist lady only has 'hmmm' to say?" Ellen Cherry ignored him. She scrutinized the maquette awhile longer,
shaking the windup toy of her hairdo, although whether in wonderment or exasperation they could not tell. Eventually, she said, "Well, whatever it is, it isn't cartoonish. It's really quite powerful, in both a kinetic and a totemic sense."
"See?" said Spike. "What am I telling you? It takes an artist to hok a tchynik."
"Then you do not know what it is, either," said Abu.
"Oh, but I do," Ellen Cherry corrected him. "Oh, but I truly do."
The country of Palestine, which had been called Canaan, was named for Pales.
Pales was a deity. The ass-god. Or the ass-goddess. Usually he was male, but sometimes she was female, and sometimes its gender was a tad ambivalent.
The name Pales was Arabic, having come out of Libya, but the Hebrews loved the long-eared bisexual no less than the Arabs. Tacitus, the Roman historian, wrote that the Semites fell into venerating the ass because had it not been for wild asses, they never would have survived in the desert. It was probably more complicated than that.
The ass was a savior who provided milk, meat, shoe leather, and

transportation (what the Bible calls the "golden calf was actually the golden ass, since there were never many cows in the Levant).
The ass was also obstinate, silly, and sexually crude.
Embodying all of those characteristics, Pales was trickster, fertility spirit, and sacred clown, presiding over humankind's unruly passions, giving mortals what they needed, but not before having some fun with them.
Ellen Cherry explained all this to Abu and Spike, just as Boomer had explained it to her. "In the left hand there, the female hand with the long fingernails, that's a pitcher of milk and a jar of honey. Those wavy white rods in the masculine hand are supposed to represent the hot desert wind. I guess they used to call that wind 'The Breath of the Ass.' That wind always brought trouble."
"How could something called The Breath of the Ass' help but bring trouble?" said Abu. "Still, it's musical. A little poem."
"That wind I know already. In the Sinai, I felt it. Oy! Such a wind! It irritates the mind as well as the body."
Having informed its financiers what or who the statue represented, Ellen Cherry went on to explain why it had been chosen. "Boomer says it ought to remind Arabs and Jews of their common roots, that once upon a time they worshipped the same deity and that a lot of stuff they still have in their religions can be traced back to their common cult. He says it should remind them that this land they've fought over so bitterly was named after a braying ninny. And that that ought to tell them something. Among other things, it should tell them not to take themselves so seriously. 01' Boomer and Zif hope that both Arabs and Jews can look at this creature, all goofy and vulgar, and maybe find some humor in their own folly. And that at the same time that they're laughing at themselves and how they allowed a simple case of sibling rivalry to escalate into such a long- lasting, world-threatening mess, they can also reaffirm their original sexuality, which, Boomer says, means reaffirming their ties to nature. He says that one of the main problems in Palestine or Israel is that everybody, Arab and Jew, lives in the abstract, lives in political and religious ideology rather than living in physical bodies connected to the earth."
She paused. "Well, there you have it. Personally, I don't know donkey poop from oat bran when it comes to ass-gods, or any of that other National Geographic jive. But I do know what works on an aesthetic level, and as nutty as this piece is, as a work of art it ain't bad. It ain't half bad."

Around and around the maquette, Spike and Abu walked.
"It has a certain élan," admitted Abu. "A crazy throb of life."
"It's speaking to our fundamental unity," said Spike. "That I like."
"Yes," Abu agreed. "But there will be misinterpretations. And there will be
trouble."
"Hoo boy! You said it. The Breath of the Ass."
*
Around and around the model, Spike and Abu walked. Ellen Cherry went
to the toilet. Coming and going, she paused to admire the smooth white wall behind the bandstand. When she returned to the office, the men were still circling the androgynous ass, trying to determine if they liked it or not.
"By the way," Ellen Cherry inquired, "how did you get the maquette?"
"Rather mysterious," replied Abu. "A messenger unexpectedly delivered it."
"Oh. You'd intimated that Boomer or Zif or both might bring it over." "Yes. But a messenger delivered it."
"Oh."
There was a rum bottle on the desk, and Ellen Cherry helped herself to a
shot. When it reached her stomach, she experienced an instant flash of heartburn, as if the rum was chemically antagonistic to some component of the shawarma. She burped. The burp, though dainty and subdued, jarred something in her thinking process. "What did the messenger look like?" she asked.
"Sorry?"
"The messenger who delivered the model. What did he ... ?"
"Now that you mention it, he was rather quaint. He was in full livery." "Did he have a beard?"
"No."
"Are you sure? No goatee?"
"No. He was clean-shaven, was he not, Spike?"
"Like a matzo ball."
"Well, was he wearing dark glasses?"
"Yes. Yes, he was. How do you know this?"
"Anything else?"
"No."
"No tan paper bag?"
"Why, yes, he did have a bag under his arm."
"Yeah, and when he set down the model, a book fell out of it. It was the

new best-seller by that guy Tom Clancy."
"Well, I'll be. ... I thought I saw him limping when he left the Ansonia." "What is this, Cherry?"
Ellen Cherry whirled to the sofa and snatched up the florist box that she
had forgotten there. She tore off the lid. Inside were a dozen red roses, their stems longer than the virile ears of a jackass. And there was a tiny envelope. And in the envelope, a card. In a cement-mixer scrawl, it read:
Love & Lust From the Master of Disguise
"That son of a bitch," she said, laughing. "That complete idiot son of a bitch. He's having entirely too much fun."
First, she telephoned the Ultima Sommervell Gallery. Ultima was said to be in a meeting.
Next she called the Ansonia. "I'm sorry, man," said an unfamiliar voice, "Pepe's in a meeting, man."
Was this what they meant by trickle-down economics? She poured herself another jigger of rum. Quietly burping a vapor of molten lava and dragon snot, a venom of fire ant, an essence that certain Middle Eastern governments might surely have converted to weaponry, she got hold of her emotions. Her intuition told her that Boomer was already on his way back to Jerusalem. An inner voice whined that he might have been around long enough to ball ol' Ultima, but she scolded herself that she had a lot of nerve fretting over infidelity on the very sofa where she and Spike. . . . Ellen Cherry let go of the whole business. She laughed again and took a drink of rum.
Then she made another phone call. "David Davis Artist Supplies," a geezerish voice answered. It was ol' Dave, himself. Obviously, Dave Davis, proprietor of her favorite materials outlet (and unrelated to the late Mel Davis, whose dog boutique invariably gave her the willies), ol' Dave was not in a meeting.
Ellen Cherry checked the office clock. It was two-thirty on the day before Thanksgiving. "Are you still open?" she asked.
"You bet we're open, and we're facing it all."
"Ill be right in."
One last shot of rum and, leaving Spike and Abu in orbit around Pales, she
hailed a cab to Lafayette and Bleecker to invest her rent money in the retail

sector of private enterprise. *
Many New York artists preferred to patronize Pearl Paints at Canal and Broadway, but it was David Davis for Ellen Cherry Charles. She liked the fact that it was old, funky, and underlit. She liked the fact that ol' Dave maintained personal relationships with artists and that the clerks, who were usually too busy to wait on her, dressed in black sweatsuits, as if they were stagehands in some kabuki theater of art supplies. It was the kind of store in which she had daydreamed of shopping when she was still a girl in Colonial Pines, a slightly otherworldly place that outfitted the brave and the anointed for magical quests.
There was a room at David Davis devoted to brushes. Hundreds of them in all sizes lay in the subterranean dimness, their glossy bristles pointing at the shopper as if the shopper were auditioning before an audience of hedgehogs. Walking into the brush room, Ellen Cherry always felt like a moth who had fluttered into a fur coat. Today, burping, each burp a demítasse of napalm, she selected more than a dozen fine sable brushes, mostly in the broader widths.

A clerk, gliding into the room as if to roll scenery aside so that costumed samurai might battle with palette knives, actually asked if she needed assistance. It was uncharacteristically uncrowded. No last-minute shopping frenzy at David Davis, no artist cooks seeking materials with which to improve the appearance of a turkey.
She moved on to the acrylic department. Now came the fun part. Without regard to price, she began to pull jumbo jars of paint from the shelves. And, burping all the while, her esophagus smoldering like a soggy fuse, she chanted the names of the colors as she dropped them into her basket.
"Indian red," she sang. "Mars red, Venetian red, cadmium red, vermilion, and rose madder." There was alizarin crimson, magenta, and that thorn in the backside of the sinful, sister terra rosa.
There was cobalt blue, cerulean blue, prussian blue, ultramarine blue, and, with just a soupçon of garlic, french ultramarine blue.
"Hansa yellow." She liked the sound of that one so well she sang it twice. "Hansa yellow" (patron saint of jaundiced piano players). Then, "zinc yellow, lemon yellow, yellow ocher, mars yellow, naples yellow, and brilliant orange.
"Thio violet, prism violet, mars violet, cobalt violet, dioxazine purple."
Next, those nightmares of newlywed homemakers, raw sienna and burnt sienna. ("He likes , his medium rare, boo-hoo.") Raw umber and burnt umber ("There, there, dear, we'll send out for pizza."), van-dyke brown, brown madder, thalo copper, silver, gold oxide, and payne's gray.
"Viridian, o viridian! Green earth, cadmium green, hooker's green" (protectress of novice prostitutes) "and sap green" (patron saint of voters who believe all Irish-American politicians are honest).
"O sing mars black, lamp black, ivory black, and titanium white" (blessed are the Caucasians who went down with the ship). "Sing iridescent white and light portrait pink."
What did she forget? Lily white, basic black, snow white, black beauty, white Christmas, black friday, white supremacy, black power, the color purple, people-eater purple, the color of money, long green, lawn green, lorne green, Lohengrin, the color of your parachute, the color of my true love's hair, puce, mars puce, mars chartreuse, mars bars, little-boy blue, blue bayou, blues in the night, paint-the-town red, do-it-up brown, james brown, dorian gray, red skelton, red October, torn clancy red, better-dead-than red, better-ill-than teal, greenberg, gold-berg, long-john silver, mellow yellow, electrical banana, yellow peril, yellow fever, mayonnaise yellow, mustard, relish, and onions.

Ellen Cherry's head was spinning. She felt dizzy and faint. She should have known better than to mix rum and art supplies. With effort, she hauled her purchases to the checkout counter, where she parted with considerable cash. After the transaction, Dave called her a cab. She waited for it on the street so that she might inhale some crisp, cool air.
By the time that the taxi deposited her back at Isaac & Ishmael's, her vertigo had subsided, and her heartburn was but a dying ember. Spike and Abu had gone, as well. "I'll be doing some decorating," she informed the skeptical security guard, and she let herself in with her key. She wasted little time, but unpacked her supplies, arranged the paint jars in a row at the rear of the bandstand, fetched a stepladder from the pantry, turned up the thermostat, stripped down to her underpants, and went to work on the wall.
Whistling, humming, bobbing, weaving, scratching, contorting, swilling diet Pepsis, playing the eye game just like she used to do, she painted until well past midnight. Then she collapsed on the office couch where she and Spike Cohen had . . .
She awoke at dawn, toasted some pita bread, washed it down with milk, and surveyed what she had done. For the most part, it pleased her. There were contours that needed thinning, volumes that needed weight, lines to be shortened or lengthened, passages of color to be tinted or shaded: she was a bit rusty, after all. Yet, on the whole, it pleased her. And, of course, there was a lot of blank picture plane left to cover. The wall was eleven feet tall and fourteen feet long.
After calling Nabila to say that she would have to forgo Thanksgiving dinner due to a headache, she hopped back on the ladder and painted all day. Most of Thursday night she painted, and Friday and Friday night, Saturday and Saturday night, Sunday and Sunday night. She took daily sponge baths in Abu's beloved sink, but never changed her underwear, and long before Monday, it looked like . . . well, if Joseph had been a cross-dresser, the Bible might have made reference to his panties of many colors. ("The girls in the drawer are not going to believe this," said the polychrome briefs. "Om wooga nam.") The I & I she cleaned out of diet Pepsi and Coke, leftover falafel, tahini, and, yes, even baba ghanoug. By Sunday, she was having an hourly coffee with rum, just to keep the motor running.
When at 8:45 on Monday morning Spike showed up to admit the plasterers, Ellen Cherry was so deep in sleep that an industrial crane couldn't have lifted her out of it. Spike hovered over her, cursing the kidney stone that had knocked him

loose from her embrace. His fingers itched to touch her nipples, although one of the nipples was gold oxide and the other mostly french ultramarine blue. Her feet, too, were spattered with paint. Nevertheless, Spike bent and kissed lightly his favorite toe. Then, he covered her nakedness with his ongepotchket coat and went to the kitchen to phone Abu.
"Our little artist lady has struck!" he announced. "The big one she's dropped."
"Send the plasterers home," said Abu, when he had learned the details.
When Ellen Cherry finally awoke, the bar was packed with men watching Monday night football. Each of them had noticed the new mural, but only one of them, Detective Jackie Shaftoe, followed it as avidly as he did the game.
Ellen Cherry dressed and slipped out the back door, through the frosty courtyard. She was still exhausted, but there was a zip in her step. She could have kicked the moon.
*
Now, Spike and Abu had two confounding works of art on their inexperienced hands, and throughout the week they studied them with equal zeal. The husband's piece, the sculpture, was the critical work, of course, since a decision about its deployment had to be made. On Thursday evening they made it.
Abu explained to Ellen Cherry their rationale. "Concerning this Pales character, I cannot suppose how much research your Boomer conducted—"
"Probably not very much. I'd guess he just stumbled across the story somewhere and took a shine to it."
"But we skipped tennis today so that we might verify his claims at the library."
"And did he have it straight?"
"Hoo boy! He told only the tip of the iceberg."
"Indeed, dear Cherry. It seems that the cult of the donkey deity extended
throughout much of the ancient world. I was surprised to learn that Palatine Hill in Rome also was named for the clownish Pales."
"To our credit maybe—maybe not—we Hebrews tend to regard him as male. Tao,' we call him."
Ellen Cherry sang, "And on that farm he had an ass, Iao, Iao, O." "You're laughing, already, but you may not be so wrong."
"As you accurately reported, Tacitus wrote that the Semites fell into
venerating the ass because had it not been for wild asses they never would have

survived in the desert. It was probably more complicated than that. How complicated? Well, it isn't enough that the children of Lilith, Adam's 'bad' wife, were born with donkey haunches or that Samson slew the Philistines with the jawbone of an ass or that Jesus chose to enter Jerusalem on the back of one of those scrawny steeds, but very early images of the Hebrew Messiah depicted him as an ass-headed man crucified on a tree."
"That's wild."
"Even earlier, in Egypt, there was an ass-headed deity my ancestors called Set, who was crucified annually and wounded in his side. On more than one Sunday morning in spring he rose from the dead."
"You're kidding."
"You're kidding, she says. That, little darlink, is what I'm saying to the next goy what is accusing my people of Christ-killing. You're kidding."
"As a goddess, Pales was the protectress of herd animals, thus insuring the survival of the tribe. As a bisexual, Pales was served by both priests and priestesses, usually dressed in big wooden donkey masks. The temples where Pales was worshipped gave us the word 'palace.' "
"Fascinating, you all."
"During the Festival of Palilia, which was appropriated into the Christian calendar as the Feast of Saint George, some rowdy games were played in those temples."
"I'll bet."
"Today's innocent children what're attending birthday parties where Pin the Tail on the Donkey is played—hoo!—they don't know what they do."
"Iao Iao O," said Ellen Cherry.
Since Pales had been an important religious figure, one whose pale specter still haunted the Western and Middle Eastern worlds, and since he—or she—was almost entirely forgotten, to a large extent deliberately obliterated by revisionist theologians, Spike and Abu thought that it might be a swell idea to revive the figure.
"It is dangerous to forget the past. Of course, it will be controversial, but it is such a lively sculpture, if the narrow-minded fundamentalists can rise above their insecurities, even they might enjoy the antics of our prancing donkey."
"A kick in and from the ass," said Ellen Cherry. "Well, I applaud your decision. There's a jarring poetics of spatiality in this piece. By that I mean the implicit assumption of unified form in space is exploded by the presence of three independent components—the rocks, the map, and the figure—that are only

subliminally connected, but which playfully echo the constant clash of images and their meanings in the human mind."
Spike and Abu looked her over.
"Hoo, such hoking a tchynik," said the one.
"What's a girl like you doing in food service?" asked the other.
"But you know, you all still haven't told me what you think of my mural."
In truth, they weren't really clear about what they thought of it. Certainly, it would never occur to them to drape or replaster the wall, for that might hurt Ellen Cherry's feelings; and they had to admit, moreover, that the painting added color and energy to the room. Whether or not they understood it, appreciated it wholeheartedly, or supported it against the attacks of others, well, that was a horse of a different collar.
And it did invite a few attacks. Among the staff and clientele there were several who delighted in the mural, many who found it easiest to ignore it, and several who were affronted, even angered by what they took to be an insult to their ideas of art and their perceptions of reality. At various times, Abu and Spike fell into each of those camps, though seldom for longer than an hour.
When a British employee of the UN remarked, "My seven-year-old daughter could have painted that," Ellen Cherry responded icily in the only way one could to that most hackneyed and yahoo-brained of reactions to art:
"Maybe she could. But she didn't. And I did."
During cocktail hour on Friday, as the bar was filling with regulars, there was considerable banter concerning the painting, much of it lighthearted, none of it informed. After a particularly snide evaluation by the fat Egyptian doctor, Detective Shaftoe rose to his feet, lifted his can of beer to the mural, and said softly but very emphatically:
"Museum quality."
Then he sat back down.
The sullen, burly American black with the white hair and oft-broken nose
was known to be a man who spoke only when he had something to say. The others respected his opinions. If Shaftoe pronounced the painting worthy of being hung in a museum, there wasn't a fellow in the room inclined to disagree. But the majority in the bar was also in harmony with the bartender when, after a deferential pause, he said:
"Guess that's why I don't go to no museums."
"Any museums," Dr. Farouk corrected him. Can o' Beans would have loved

the guy.
The viewer's eye entered the painting through the beak of an owl. It was a nighttime painting. Although the scene, if one could call it a scene, was interior, the stars were nevertheless plainly visible, and the furniture was flecked with foam from the moon.
Through a diamond-shaped window, animals could be seen snoring on a hillside.
There were prominent architectural overtones, but the picture, if one could call it a picture, might also be read as a landscape. Wasn't that an oak tree shading the cookstove, and wasn't the oak choked with mistletoe?
Gooey and thick, the paint had been applied with luxurious abandon, and yet the mood it evoked was not of modern luxury but of preindustrial grandeur; the black, muddy, smoky grandeur of life at the edge of great forests. Pastoral pageantry. The woodcutters' ball.
To the extent that the imagery suggested a rediscovery of a forgotten past, it likewise suggested that that "lost" past was the perfect expression of contemporary urban sensibilities. From where had the city-dwellers come, after all? What was the metropolitan equivalent of jollifications around the bonfire or of the fanged things that ambushed maidens on their way to the well?
Though the painting was heavy and dense, pulled by gravity like the skin of a crone, nothing stood still in it. The mushrooms, the fetishes, the wool and the wine, the mascara jars, the poppies, the crickets, the poison arrows, the bravura helixes of juicy smoke all spun like the stars: onward, outward, inward, backward, sideways, upside down, and forever. The iron sword that was embedded in the trunk of the oak was as vibrant as the little silver spoon that bounced on the buffalo hide, the golden cradle that was balanced in the crotch of the tree rocked so hard that the sky rocked with it, a zodiac transformed into a music hall.
Despite its complexity, its nocturnal richness, there was something slaphappy if not slapdash about it, something careless and childlike. Itch as it might with stellar information, buckle though it might under a weight of ashes, adobe, and bone, it also was as topsy-turvy as a nursery rhyme; it was kachina pinball, an episode from chipmunk television.
It was not unlike—and one is forced to say this—the room of the wolfmother wallpaper. Salome, when she arrived for her Friday night performance, took one long, captivated look at it and consented to dance the

Dance of the Seven Veils.
~
She didn't perform the Dance of the Seven Veils that night, as Abu was led to believe she would. "Will she be doing it tomorrow night, then?" he asked the bandleader at the conclusion of the show. Salome had already departed. She seldom spoke, in any case, partly due to shyness, partly to the fact that she had a pronounced lisp, partly to some cultural code to which she was said to adhere. "Will she be doing it tomorrow?"
"Such is not the case."
"Next week, then?"
"Such is not the case."
"Well, when?"
"Further into the future."
"Oh, I get it. Mish mish. When the bloody apricots bloom."
"No, no, my benefactor, no. The month of the dance shall be January. The
date of the dance shall be the twenty-third. The day of the dance shall be Sunday. The hour of the dance shall be three o'clock P.M. in the afternoon."
"Hmmm. I see. Well, that is precise enough. I will not trouble you to explain how she arrived at that particular time, although I should point out that that is a good seven weeks away."
"She is of need to prepare herself," the bandleader said. There was no enamel in his mouth to stand in the way of his saying it,
Management hadn't planned to reveal it right away, but word leaked out faster than radiation from a government reactor, and by showtime on Saturday, the whole restaurant, from kitchen to admission line, was squeaky with Seven Veil helium. Nearly everybody had the date wrong, however, and those few who pinpointed the day set the hour anywhere from dawn to midnight. So, Abu borrowed the microphone from the bandleader and, standing tall and dignified, his nose a fluorescent traffic cone in the spotlight, he cleared his throat and began, "Ladies and gentlemen, Isaac and Ishmael's, your home for the multicultural cuisine of Jerusalem, is proud to announce . . ."
He closed to a glove factory of applause. Even the hip refugees from Payday and Nell's, people who prided themselves on never expressing

enthusiasm for anything (unless alone in front of a mirror), slapped one damp palm against the other, although they were careful not to emit a hoot or whistle. The place was so noisy that only those near the front of the bar heard Detective Shaftoe when he exclaimed, "There's a catch!"
Among those who did hear him were Spike and Abu, the Greek delegate, the Egyptian doctor, the Cypriot economists, and a table of Israeli regulars from the Peace Now organization. Each of them looked at Shaftoe expectantly, a little anxiously.
"There's a goddamn catch to it!" he repeated. There was a note of betrayal in Shaftoe's voice, a note of helplessness and skepticism, as if even he couldn't believe what his police-trained memory was telling him was true.
The Super Bowl.
The Super Bowl.
The Super Bowl, the Super Bowl, the Super Bowl, the Super Bowl.
By innocent coincidence or diabolical design, Salome had scheduled the
Dance of the Seven Veils to commence simultaneously with the kickoff of the Super Bowl game.
~
Conflicts flared almost instantaneously. On the one side, there were those for whom the legendary Dance of the Seven Veils had taken on the proportions of fabulous personal fantasy—romantic, erotic, opulent, mysterious; resonant with long-lost exotica, secrets of the Bible and secrets of the East: they would have crawled ten kilometers on a carpet of dog poop and razor blades to witness it, were it the genuine article; and with this devastating nymph who called herself Salome, there was no question of authenticity. On the other side were those for whom the Super Bowl was the most anticipated event of each and every year, the culmination of five months of thrills, endless statistics, ego boosts, and severe disappointments; a major holiday, no, the major holiday, a day when routine and care were suspended; when the nation, the world, came together as one; a festival that cut across national, racial, and religious boundaries; a ritual during which no time existed except the artificial time on the game clock, a symbolic battle in which only token blood was shed and for the duration of which the grip of death on the human psyche was relaxed and put

aside: Isaac & Ishmael's still had the biggest, sharpest television screen in midtown Manhattan, and this group had every intention of watching the game on it.
It was not, however, a matter of two warring camps, the one demanding Salome, the other, the Super Bowl. At least, not at first it wasn't. In the beginning, the majority of the I & I's regular patrons straddled the fence. They wanted the game and the dance. Sgt. Jackie Shaftoe, for example, couldn't even conceive of having to choose between them.
To their credit as humanitarians, Spike and Abu acted to nip the divisiveness in the bud. That very night, seven weeks before the twenty-third of January, they sought to avert conflict through compromise.
Salome's ride was late that night, so she waited in the office for her chaperon to come through the courtyard and fetch her. That is where they approached her. She was breathing hard from the exertion of the performance, and her body was so bathed in sweat that her clothing stuck to her, causing her thighs to present themselves like mackerel fillets on a platter, and her nipples to protrude like rubber erasers through wet Kleenex. A pearly mustache of perspiration accentuated the ripeness of her mouth, making it appear as if it had been sucking on a peach, and her hair was plastered against her neck as if she had just emerged from a bath—or a wedding bed. To Spike's and Abu's great relief, she'd covered her marquise au chocolat eyes with thick spectacles, through which she was busily reading an Uncle Scrooge comic book. Had it not been for the glasses and the funnies, they might not have been controlled enough to approach her at all.
As it turned out, it was futile anyway. In her dewy lisp, she told them politely, "My schedule is fixed, sirs. It's in the stars. I dance then or never."
What could they do but assure her that the date was fine, was perfect, was hunky-dory, was resplendent with lucky omens, and wore a carnation in its buttonhole? They waved meekly as she slipped into a heavy wool coat and, glasses steaming over, vanished into the courtyard on the arm of her protectress.
Over the next couple of days, Salome's decision was relayed to the regular clientele, who now numbered between thirty and forty men and a half dozen women, where it was generally accepted, though not without grumbling and grousing.
"She could do that dance any old time she pleases. Right? So why does she have to do it while the game is on? What's the deal?"

"As zee inspector says, it ees a catch. A treek of some kind. She ees sabotaging zee football."
"No, no, come on. There's no hidden agenda. She just doesn't care, that's all. She's a chick."
"I resent that. Millions of chicks watch the Super Bowl. Someday we may be playing in it."
"Ha-ha."
"Fat chance."
"When the apricots bloom."
During Salome's performances the following weekend, several patrons
yelled relevant comments at her, some of them pleading, some openly resentful. She paid them scant attention. In fact, she was dancing better than ever, with more vim, more daring, more open-heartedness.
"She must be working up to the Seven Veils," said a fan.
"Naw," the bartender disagreed. "The bandleader says that she just gets off dancing in front of that painting."
~
Salome and Sergeant Shaftoe weren't quite the only living souls to respond enthusiastically to Ellen Cherry's mural. An artist, a collector, and a trio of gallery poufs took their eyes off the shim-sham-shimmey long enough to hurdle along the starlit obstacle course of Ellen Cherry's creation, sliding on a sheet of pure color here, banging against the shadowy edge of a rectangle there, in pursuit of her elusive organic forms. They were impressed enough to later discuss the mural down in SoHo, presumably within earshot of Ultima Sommervell, because one noon the dealer showed up at the I & I for lunch.
"Darling, how simply interesting. I daresay this is your finest work. It is. It's a breakthrough, don't you think?"
"It's pretty much the same as I've always painted."
"Oh, but scale can make a difference. Size is important, no matter what our apologist sisters say." Ultima laughed a spray-the-roses, there-will-always-be-an- England sort of laugh. "It's more than the large format, though. It's your syntax. The way in which you've orchestrated a structural quarrel between the metaphoric and the metonymic. What is this I'm eating?"
"It's called baba ghanoug."

"Jolly well named." With her fork, she pushed the puddle of beige stuff aside. "In terms of content, you seem to cross, recross, and sometimes erase the boundaries between interior and exterior, between past and present, between the abstract and the concrete. Without resorting to the cheap theatrics of surrealism, you've painted a portrait of nighttime consciousness, which is to say, of the feminine side, of the right brain, of intuition."
"Well . . , this picture is more out of my intuition than out of my experience," Ellen Cherry conceded. "Say, maybe you'd like to sample some—" But try as she might, she couldn't think of anything more horrific than the baba ghanoug.
It wasn't that Ellen Cherry was unappreciative of Ultima's hoking a tchynik. The dealer had eyes, no doubt about it. But Ellen Cherry hadn't analyzed the painting, and she was less than eager to entertain anybody else's analysis. On a conscious level, she wasn't sure what the painting meant or even where it had come from, she knew only that it was a work of complicated and unexpected beauty and that she was somehow responsible for it. Beauty! Wasn't that what mattered? Beauty was hardly a popular ideal at that jumpy moment in history. The masses had been desensitized to it, the intelligentsia regarded it with suspicion. To most of her peers, "beauty" smacked of the rarefied, the indulgent, the superfluous, the effete. How could persons of good conscience pursue the beautiful when there was so much suffering and injustice in the world? Ellen Cherry's answer was that if one didn't cultivate beauty, soon he or she wouldn't be able to recognize ugliness. The prevalence of social ugliness made commitment to physical beauty all the more essential. And the very presence in life of double-wide mobile homes, Magic Marker graffiti, and orange shag carpeting had the effect of making ills such as poverty, crime, repression, pollution, and child abuse seem tolerable. In a sense, beauty was the ultimate protest, and, in that it generally lasted longer than an orgasm, the ultimate refuge. The Venus de Milo screamed "No!" at evil, whereas the Spandex stretch pant, the macramé plant holder were compliant with it. Ugly bedrooms bred ugly habits. Of course, it wasn't required of beauty that it perform a social function. That was what was valuable about it. Even more than virtue, it was its own reward. To be sure, there were those who maintained that beauty was in the eye of the beholder, and there were beholders who thought her mural was the print of the paw of the pukemaster, but those guys could just kiss her feisty fanny, which everybody agreed was beautiful.

~
Neighbor against neighbor, countryman against countryman, brother against brother, boss against employee, husband against wife. If conditions at Isaac & Ishmael's sound like civil war, then those are the boots it must wear, because as the year flipped from old to new on its solar hinge, those were how conditions were.
Instead of Fort Sumter, it was a none-too-posh cocktail lounge; instead of a garrison, it was a motley crowd of Americans and foreigners watching TV; instead of a cannon, the shot that touched it off was fired from a timekeeper's buzzer. It happened on a weekend afternoon, the day that a National Football League team from New York City—whether the Jets or the Giants isn't really important— won the playoff title in its conference (the first time that had happened since 1986) and the right to play for all the marbles in the Super Bowl game.
"New York's in!" screamed one of the locals. "Now, by God, we got to watch the game."
"Absolutely. Salome must drop her veils some other day."
"Well, she's not going to change her time and that's final. So maybe you should watch the game some other place."
"Some other place?" The fellow was incredulous.
"Perhaps she should stage her sleazy striptease some other place."
"She dances here, not some other place."
"Well, I watch football here, not some other place."
"So it is a 'sleazy striptease' now, is it?"
"You guys got pussy on the brain."
"And you gentlemen have zee football on zee brains."
"It's not football, damn it! It's the Super Bowl!"
"It's not zee pussy, it's zee Dance of zee Seven Veils."
"Come on. Smarten up. The Super Bowl is the pure spirit of America. It
sums up this country, it's what we're all about. You miss the Super Bowl, you miss the whole point of being here, jack."
"Ha! You think we are in this country to watch wealthy gorillas play schoolyard games?"
"No, I guess you must be here to watch teenage pussy shake a tambourine." "Dickhead!"

"Your English is improving, frog mouth."
"I was under the impression," said Dr. Farouk, "that this was a democracy." "Fuckin'-a, it's a democracy."
"Then we must vote."
At that point, Spike and Abu stepped in. "Okay," said Spike. "Okay. We'll
have an election, already."
"But not today," put in Abu. "There must be time to weigh the issues, time
for each side to make its case. Think about it, discuss it, and in two weeks you shall vote. Mr. Cohen and I shall remain neutral. We shall tally your votes and declare a winner."
All agreed that that was fair. All but one, that is. "It isn't going to work. You can vote between money for schools or no money for schools, you can vote between Jesse Jackson or some jive-ass Republican, but can't nobody with a drop of juice in 'em vote between the Dance of the Seven Veils or the Super Bowl." As usual, Detective Shaftoe was correct.
As was customary in modern election campaigns, fair play was shunned from the start. Spike and Abu were forced to waste an inordinate amount of time working to insure an honest poll. Their efforts were about as effective as Mother Hubbard's pet care. Proponents of both sides were bringing in relatives, friends, and casual acquaintances, and trying to palm them off as eligible voters, which is to say, regular patrons of the I & I. It was difficult to sort them out, for to Spike most Arabs looked alike, and Abu had the same problem with Jews. Race or national origin had little to do with which side people took, however. There were North Africans who compaigned diligently for football, Americans who passionately endorsed the dance. And vice versa. Straight women and male homosexuals were solidly behind Salome. Lesbians supported the Super Bowl.
In the flush of excitement that followed New York's victory in the playoffs, the majority leaned decidedly toward the ball game. Then came Friday night, upon which Salome, though as pouty and uncomfortable as ever, danced as if she were bareback on a bucking python, danced like a police whistle in a raid on a bordello, danced like a self-winding watch on the wrist of Saint Vitus. The pendulum swung.
"But I just don't see how I can deliberately miss the Super Bowl," said one perplexed gentleman. "It seems . . . unnatural."
"Consider this, my friend. When was the last time you saw a Super Bowl that wasn't as dull as bouillon?"

"Well ..."
"Be honest. Ninety percent of the games have been boring."
"Lots of important things are boring. Church is boring. That's no excuse for
not going. The UN is boring."
"Salome is not church, and she's not the UN—"
"You can say that again."
"Right you are."
"—and the Dance of the Seven Veils will never be mundane."
"Couldn't be."
"Hardly."
"Not a chance."
"Yeah, but still ..."
As election day drew near, Spike and Abu carefully calculated the outcome.
After much observation, private polling, and scientific conjecture, they concluded that twenty-five percent of eligible voters favored the game, thirty percent favored the dance, and the remaining forty-five percent not only were undecided, they were so ambivalent, so torn, that they probably wouldn't vote at all.
"Any way we dismember this chicken," said Abu, "it is going to be an unhappy bird."
"Oy!" exclaimed Spike. "Palestine it's resembling."
Ellen Cherry had watched the fluxions, the dirty tricks, the acrimony and confusion with detached amusement. Personally, she wanted the dance, but only out of curiosity, and she was curious only because she'd learned that her mural had influenced Salome's decision to perform it. Of course, she had never been especially attracted to athletics. One of the few things she had always admired about Boomer Petway was how he'd lain down the shot put and taken up the tango.
One day she had asked some men at the bar, "What would happen if God snatched your balls away? You know the balls I'm referring to. Suppose a spaceship flew into our atmosphere and beamed up every ball on the planet. Every last football, baseball, tennis ball, basketball, volleyball, golfball, shot put, softball, squash ball, soccer ball, pool ball, bowling ball, even croquet and polo balls, all of them. What would happen? Would the male population go slowly berserk? Would blood flow in the streets? Would you boys just curl up and die? Or would it expedite the evolution of a higher species of mammal?"

A few of them had looked at her sheepishly, the others as if she were dangerously dumb.
"Spaceships do not exist," said the Egyptian doctor dryly.
"They better not beam up no goo/balls or you in big trouble," warned Shaftoe. Those who were familiar with the expression had a hearty laugh.
~
For weeks the controversy had raged around her, yet if Ellen Cherry found it impossible to ignore, she found it entirely possible to belittle. There were more primary concerns snapping off of the synapses beneath her pecan and chicory curls, not the least of which was Patsy's impending arrival, bag and baggage; lock, stock, and barrel; hook, line, and sinker; bell, book, and candle; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner, Smith and Non Sequitur.
In preparation for her mama's Christmas Eve entry into the nonstop espresso machine of Manhattan, she had whited out with gesso all the nude portraits of Boomer Petway. That operation had served the dual purpose of concealing her artistic adoration of Boomer's heavy equipment (although she had every reason to suspect that Patsy's captivation with the manly apparatus exceeded her own) and of providing her with fresh blank surfaces upon which to paint. She was cramping and bloating with the urge to paint, a kind of PMS, and one of her fears was that with Patsy in the apartment she would lack both the privacy and the space.
She'd then proceeded to white-over the pictures of the dirty socks and the bean cans, including the half-can that remained from her last foray into gesso. (Thousands of miles away, a deformed, barracuda-bitten, and thoroughly naked Can o' Beans—the last remnants of his/her identifying label having dissolved in the tepid waters of the eastern Mediterranean—issued a sudden groan, as if telepathically receiving the news. "Hold on awhile longer, you must, you must," commanded Conch Shell, who even then could detect the sonic vibrations that advertised the surf smacking a pier in Tel Aviv.) Next, Ellen Cherry had turned to the spoons. One by one, she covered them up, trembling all the while, until there was but a single spoon portrait remaining. That one she had half a mind to preserve as a reminder of the bewildering impact upon her life of the spoon's enigmatic appearances and disappearances (she still suspected that Secret Agent Petway was somehow responsible) and, just as significantly, of the oceanic

rapture and arcane knowledge with which the spoon had rewarded her when she had subjected it to the eye game. Upon reflection, however, she'd decided that there were things in this world upon which it was best not to dwell lest they attach themselves to one's keel like barnacles, and slowly cause one to leak, to list, and eventually to sink. She had regained much of the equilibrium she'd lost since moving to New York and didn't wish to risk being thrown off balance again by the weight of a weird dessert spoon. But wait a moment! There were ways in which that spoon, the very weirdness of that spoon, had assisted her in righting herself. Hadn't the spoon pierced, as if it were a fork, the rigidity of her ego, and wasn't a tight ego the source of many an individual's misery; and, furthermore, hadn't she intuitively painted a spoon into her mural at the I & I? In the end, she chose to save the one spoon picture, but to keep it safely turned to the wall.
There was one painting left with which to deal: the portrait of Boomer with the seven various tongues. That one she delivered to the Sommervell Gallery. Ultima found it inferior to the I & I mural, into which she continued to read social and political meaning even while complaining that the mural accentuated feminism's soft dark underbelly. Nevertheless, Ultima was certain that the portrait was commercially viable, due mainly to its subject. Boomer's reputation loomed even larger on the New York art scene since he had deserted the scene for Israel. "Were he Jewish," said Ultima, "his flight to Jerusalem would have produced only nods and clucks. But here we have a white southern hillbilly Gentile. . . . Well, my dear, our Mr. Petway does keep them guessing." The portrait sold within forty-eight hours for five thousand dollars, allowing Ellen Cherry to escape eviction. It would have been awkward had Patsy arrived to find her camping in the streets on Christmas Eve.
Prior to Patsy's arrival, a letter had arrived from Boomer. Ellen Cherry had written to him, as well. Their letters had crossed, perhaps over the Atlantic (whose chops Conch Shell and Can o' Beans had managed to negotiate just ahead of wintry storms), perhaps over Jerusalem itself, over Gaza, over intifada, over stones, sheep heads, honey cakes, rubber bullets, and the endless caravans of ancient superstitions.
Boomer had reported that the Pales sculpture was finished and soon to be installed. Its unveiling was scheduled for the final week in January. After that, he would have some decisions to make. In the meantime, Buddy Winkler would be coming over, though probably not until after the inauguration, toward the middle of the month. In the last paragraph, Boomer wrote rather movingly about the sweet torture of having glimpsed her again, although only after first crowing

over the success of his masquerade. "Looking at you in your kimono, it felt like some backyard chef was sprinkling meat tender-izer on my heart," he scrawled. "A month-old baby could of gummed my heart up like pablum. An old boy with a bleeding ulcer could of digested it easy as cream."
As for Ellen Cherry's note, it was succinct enough to fit on a Hallmark card. "Dear Husband and Master of Disguise," it read. "Thanks for the lovely roses. I knew it was you all the time."
Patsy's plane had been an hour late, touching down at noon on the day before Christmas. Her emotions were as frizzled as her hair. "Another hayseed blows into Big Town," she announced as she came through the gate. "Lord, honey, why didn't I stay down yonder where I belong? I'm way too old and got way too much insurance money to be let loose in a meat grinder like this. I feel like handing over my purse to the first ol' boy I meet on the corner, save him the trouble of fleecing me."
"Aw, mama, you underestimate your shrewdness and overestimate your net worth. You're going to be broke in no time, all right, but it'll be landlords and Bloomingdale's that get your stash."
That night they fried chicken and trimmed a delapidated little spruce that looked more lost and scared in New York than Patsy did. They drank a fair amount of eggnog with rum in it and ended up crying, mostly over Verlin, although a dozen tears were reserved for Boomer Petway and a half dozen for men in general.
The next morning, Patsy was a bit more intact. "If Bud can get by in this huge ol' place," she said to her bacon, "then so can I."
"You'll do fine, mama. But please let's not talk about Uncle Bud." "He'll be expecting to see me."
"Okay, if you want to, but not under my roof."
They switched the topic of conversation to Isaac & Ishmael's and Ellen
Cherry went on at some length about Salome, her wide following and narrow calves, and the furious flap that was festering: the Dance of the Seven Veils vs. the Super Bowl. Patsy was fascinated and asked lots of questions. "I could of been a dancer myself," she said plaintively, her fork circling the high-relief of her waffle like a disabled warplane circling a mountainous region, searching for a place to land.
Her first week in New York, Patsy Charles refused to leave the Ansonia

unless in the company of her daughter. While Ellen Cherry was at work, Patsy would clean the apartment and dance to Neville Brothers tapes, naked except for white go-go boots. Once, standing at the window, she'd said to Ellen Cherry, "It sounds so harsh out there. It's a wonder it hasn't rubbed calluses on you."
"It can do that," said Ellen Cherry. "It can also polish you, make you shine. I remember what Boomer wrote to me once about the Middle East. 'The rougher the world gets around me, the sweeter I seem to myself I guess it's all in how you receive it."
"That Boomer."
"Yep," she sighed. "That Boomer."
Eventually, Ellen Cherry began to take her mama to the I & I with her.
Patsy helped out in the kitchen and bussed tables in the bar. It gave her something to do and allowed her both to study her daughter's mural and to witness firsthand the terrible row over the dance and the game. She understood the magnetic pull of football since it had, in her opinion, been the death of her husband, but it wasn't until she actually saw Salome perform that she could appreciate the spell the girl cast upon an audience.
"Lordy mercy," said Patsy. "She's a half-cooked little fritter, but a fellow'd have to be coated with Teflon not to let her stick to his pan."
A few days later, there was a brawl in the bar. It started when a Super- Bowl-hating woman raked her husband's cheeks with long crimson fingernails, and quickly spread to other tables before Detective Shaftoe broke it up by firing his snub-nosed .38 in the air. The slug ricocheted off a pipe in the ceiling and struck the mural. A sound came out of the bullet hole like the faroff howling of a wolf.
*
"That settles it," said Abu, when he and Spike showed up from the tennis club. Shaftoe and the security guards were still arguing over the detective's right to bring a gun into the restaurant. "That settles it. We are canceling the election."
"Hoo boy!" said Spike. "We sound like a banana republic."
"But you have a plan," Abu reminded him.
"Correct. We're kaputting the election and moving on to Plan B."
Plan B was Spike Cohen's idea. So disturbed was he by the discord that the
conflict between the game and the dance had generated that he had volunteered to purchase several large, expensive, industrial heaters and a canvas canopy so that the giant TV set might be moved temporarily into the courtyard behind the I & I. It wouldn't be nearly as comfortable as indoors, but there would be food and

beverage service at card tables, and those customers who still couldn't settle on one event or the other might move back and forth, if it suited them, between the Dance of the Seven Veils and the Super Bowl.
As the fateful Sunday was now only eight days away, almost everybody seemed grateful for the compromise. "Looks fine," muttered Shaftoe. "On paper."
On Monday, January 17, Patsy had lunch with Buddy Winkler. She begged Ellen Cherry to go with her, alas, in vain, so she ventured forth alone and, after nine or ten timid attempts, succeeded in flagging down a taxi. To Patsy's surprise, the address where the cab deposited her was that of a Middle Eastern restaurant. "Why're we eating this kind of food?" she asked, once she had flustered the good reverend by giving him a hug.
" 'Cause I'm going off to Jerusalem in the morning, and I need to accustom my taste buds. I got lots to do over yonder, and I can't afford to be distracted by queer and unappealin' sustenance. Your next question, I reckon, is why I didn't choose to acclimatize my palate in that greasy Gomorrah where Verlin Charles's only girl is breakin' her dead daddy's heart."
"Why no, Bud," said Patsy, "I was fixing to ask who dressed you. I mean, that there's a right pretty suit you got on, but that necktie looks like something the cat drug in, and isn't your shirt a tad heavy on the starch? I was fixing to ask if you couldn't use a woman's touch. In regards to your wardrobe, I mean. But now that you've gone and tol' me you're lighting out for Is-ra-el, I reckon my question has got to be, 'Why?' What is it that you're aiming to do in that troubled place? I know why you wouldn't take your lunch at Isaac and Ishmael's, although Verlin Charles did eat there on one occasion. And that brings up another question, two other questions. Can hearts really break once they're dead and gone? And do you suppose that when Jesus Christ comes back to rule in Jerusalem, the menu over yonder will then feature biscuits and ham gravy?"
The Reverend Buddy Winkler just stared at her, shaking his head, as if he were a kindly but exasperated teacher of arithmetic regarding a pupil more interested in flipping spitballs than in mastering the life-enhancing practicalities of long division. The waiter appeared, and they each ordered shish tawook with cucumbers.
"I reckon you find it better at Isaac and Ishmael's," Buddy said when it was served.
"To be honest, no," said Patsy. "Theirs tastes a bit like kerosene."

"How could anything taste right in that atmosphere? Where that hussy dances?"
"You know about Salome?"
"The whole blessed town knows 'bout that little harlot. Can you imagine? Namin' herself after the second most evil woman in the Scriptures! A deliberate insult to the memory of John the Baptist. If I wasn't sure the world was endin' soon, this evil 'round about us would plumb spoil my appetite."
"It's right around the corner, is it, Bud?"
"Oh, Patsy, you can't believe how slick everything's fallin' into place." With a wooden kabob skewer, he tapped the tabletop (no bamboo place mats in that Middle Eastern restaurant). Tap tap tap. "All the prophecies." Tap tap tap. 'Tallin' into place." Tap tap tap. "One by one." Tap tap tap. "Pretty as a speckled pup." He laid the skewer down. " 'Course the Kremlin is foulin' things up, wouldn't you know? New regime in there with 'glassnose' or whatever, talkin' peace and disarmament, tryin' to cool things off. Naturally, the Russians don't want the fiery end to come, they're atheists, they're gonna burn. Russia is deliberately slowin' down the process. They're the ones monkeyin' with God's timetable. And that's why I got to do ... what I got to do. Get things back on track. Over in Jerusalem, they eat these here cucumbers for breakfast. For breakfast] Have you ever . . . ?"
"You're gonna fool with that Dome of the Rock."
"Hush. I can't say nothing further. That daughter of yourn has become a thorn in my side. She can't be trusted. Let us lament the iniquities into which the paintbox of Jezebel has led her. Let us—"
"Let us change the damn subject before I get my dandruff up. I'm not putting up with you bad-mouthing Ellen Cherry."
"Oh, Patsy."
They finished the meal in silence. As they waited for the bill, Buddy said, "I want you to know I'm real thankful that Verlin remembered my mission in his will."
"Your mission's got a highly substantial cash flow, don't it, Bud?" "Armageddons do not come cheap."
"Tell me this: what if your violent scheme succeeds and you blow the Arab
thing to pieces and make the trouble over yonder even worse than it is already— and then the Messiah still doesn't come?"
After a short pause, during which he employed a kabob skewer to pry a microchip of green pepper from between his gold teeth, Buddy said, "Then I

reckon I'll have to step in and be the Messiah."
With such horrified disbelief did Patsy look at him that he drew his palm
instinctively, self-consciously across the wafflescape of his face and said, "Don't worry, the prophecies don't fib, and if they do, then life don't mean applesauce and never did." He snatched up a saucer of baba ghanoug and held it so close to her eyes that she had no choice but to gaze at the dead civilizations submerged in its goop.
~
That evening, about the time that Patsy was telling Ellen Cherry that Uncle Bud's ambitions might well be bigger than she had ever imagined ("I thought he just wanted to see himself on the TV"), about the time that the reverend was laying out a bulletproof vest in the bottom of his traveling bag, there came a sharp rapping at his door. Two men stood there, one of whom Bud recognized as the fellow who'd engaged him in questionable conversation the evening of the fire at St. Patrick's Cathedral. Smiling politely, they displayed plastic cards identifying themselves as employees of the Central Intelligence Agency. They asked to see first his driver's license, then his passport and airline ticket to Jerusalem. The driver's license they returned, the passport they confiscated, the ticket they tore into confetti.
"We'd appreciate it, Reverend Winkler, if you'd please come with us," said the familiar one.
"Looky here, I got me a whole pisspot of the finest Hebrew lawyers in this city, and when they get through with you boys, you gonna wish you been home watchin' 'I Spy' reruns with the little woman." He reached for the telephone, but a fist closed around his wrist, immobilizing it.
"You don't want to discuss this with your attorneys, believe me you don't. In a few hours, you'll understand why. Now get your overcoat. We got a plane to catch."
It wasn't until he saw the Washington Monument, illuminated by floodlights, that Buddy realized in what direction they had been flying. (Their Lear jet, which bore the corporate logo of a newspaper chain that the evangelist believed to be headquartered out West somewhere, had taken off from a military airfield in New Jersey.) In a few minutes, they crossed the Potomac River and

completed their descent.
A stretch limo, so glossy black that Buddy mistook it for a shadow, was
waiting on the tarmac. "Least you're kidnappin' me in style," muttered Buddy, who'd been unusually subdued during the flight. The car already contained one passenger, a guy in sweats, or, more precisely, a gentleman in powder blue Gucci running togs. He was sipping from a can of Miller Lite. When Bud grew accustomed to the dim light, he recognized the boyish good looks of the vice president of the United States.
"Care for a brewski, Reverend Winkler?"
"Well... I don't normally touch alcohol, but, okay, thank you, sir."
One of the agents, who had joined them in the gently rolling acreage of the
backseat, pulled another can of Miller Lite from an inset refrigerator and popped its tab. Buddy took a long, anxious swallow.
"Tastes great," he said.
"Less filling," said the vice president. Buddy did not think to argue.
For an hour they drove around in the frosty Virginia night, past subdivision after sleeping subdivision, each as restrained in temperament as the British- sounding name it bore (Pickwick Farms, The Greensward, Dippingdale Creek); past drive-in picture shows with lifeless screens, past massive shopping malls designed to resemble colonial towns, now dark and deserted, their cash registers cooling down like runners after a marathon. They drove the speed limit, no faster, no slower, stopping only once, in the parking lot of a colonial-style McDonald's, where the vice president got out and urinated into the shrubbery.
As they drove, the vice president talked. His voice was cheerful in a flat sort of way, but with an adenoidal edge that under the proper stimulus might whine with a kind of Eagle Scout hysteria. He thanked the preacher for his tireless ministries on behalf of God Almighty and Freedom Land. He was not only sympathetic, he said, to Buddy's plot to bomb the Dome of the Rock (with which he seemed to be familiar down to the last detail) but also grateful, he said, and admiring. It was a job that needed doing, according to the vice president. But, unfortunately, not just yet.
"You see," said the Veep, "and I'm speaking to you in strictest confidence, we have a president of this republic who's a hypocrite."
"Now, Mr. Vice President ..." cautioned one of the operatives.
"A fine and good leader in many respects," the young statesman continued,

"but in certain matters of utmost concern to, ah, true Christians everywhere, he's, sadly, not with us. He pays lip service to those, uh, matters of faith, but the truth is, Reverend Winkler, our President just does not believe even the teeniest bit in the prophecy. Well, that's not quite a fact, he does believe a teeny bit in the prophecy in a, uh, abstract, distant, on-paper sort of way; he just doesn't believe in the fulfillment of Ezekiel in our time. Why, I don't think he wants the fulfillment of Ezekiel! I don't think he wants the Rapture. You should see the way he rolls his eyes at me whenever I bring it up. I feel sometimes he's mocking me. Mocking us."
"You don't say?" clucked Buddy, his head buzzing with scriptures and historical facts that he could quote to the President to prove that Ezekiel's visions were rising like catfish all around them, that fire and brimstone were set to rain, and that those disarmament treaties that delayed that earth-burning rain succeeded only in spotting points to the anti-Christ.
As the limo glided past the neo-Tudor edifices of Tally Ho Estates, the vice president explained that were Buddy and the Third Temple Platoon to attack the Dome of the Rock in the near future, there was every indication that the President would join with Russia, would side with the evil Gog, itself, to try to forestall the nuclear purge of which Zechariah had spoken so graphically, and which the destruction of the heathen mosque ought to precipitate, if things were allowed to run their rightful course.
The Veep warned Bud that to level the Dome of the Rock while the current president was in office was to risk gumming up the works. He asked Bud—he ordered Bud—to be patient just awhile longer, to wait until there was someone more enlightened in the White House. And he indicated that that might not necessarily be as many years away as Bud might think.
The lights of the airfield, haloed like Nordic madonnas in the frosty air, could be seen again when Buddy was warned, further, against the prideful folly of unilateral action. "I admire your courage, but, look, Pat and Jerry have got a, uh, stake in this, too, and frankly they're a notch higher up the chain of command than you. We have to all pull together. Understood?"
"Guaranteed, sir. Verily, verily I say unto you—"
But before he could so much as blow the spit out of his saxophone, the vice president interrupted. "Say, reverend," he asked, "who do you like in the Super Bowl?"
"Indianapolis," blurted Buddy hopefully, then instantly regretted it. Something in the Veep's tone when he said, "That's real cute, fellow," led Bud to

believe that the Colts hadn't made it that year.
When the limo came to rest on the tarmac again, Buddy's host pumped his
hand. "God bless you," he said, and the door flew open as if on cue. Forty yards away, the Lear jet was already warming its engines.
"Any questions?" an agent asked, as Bud was buckled into his seat.
"Nope. Well, er, yeah, there's one puny item that's been a-troublin' me. You boys obviously been nosin' 'round inside my apartment.
Now, I ain't complainin'. Y'all had to do it, y'all was jest doin' y'all's job. Y'all been in my place on more'n one occasion, most likely, and I was jest wonderin': at any time did you happen to remove from the premises—for your own good reasons, naturally—a spoon, a little bitty silver spoon, and a colored stick? The stick wouldda had funny little horns on it."
From the way the agents looked at him, and then at one another, Buddy couldn't help but fear that whatever credibility he had had with the powers on high had probably now been squandered.
~
W hat was that sound? That rustling noise? It could be heard in the icy North, where there was not one leaf left upon one tree, it could be heard in the South, where the crinoline skirts lay deep in mothballs, as still and quiet as wool. It could be heard from sea to shining sea, o'er purple mountains' majesty and upon the fruited plain. What was it? Why, it was the rustle of thousands of bags of potato chips being pulled from supermarket racks; it was the rustle of plastic bags being filled with beer and soda pop and quarts of hard liquor; it was the rustle of newspaper pages fanning as readers turned eagerly to the sports section; it was the rustle of currency changing hands as tickets were scalped for forty times their face value and two hundred and seventy million dollars were wagered upon one or the other of two professional football teams. It was the rustle of Super Bowl week, drowning out the sobs of the homeless, the jabber of the mad, the death rattle of AIDS victims, and the sad, disgraceful news from Israel a.k.a. Palestine; drowning out, too, the motorboat idlings of happy infants, the whoops of lottery winners, the buttery grunts of lovers, the prayers of the traditionally devout, and the chants of those who repeated (and repeated) exotic syllables in meditation centers, rustic retreats, and at least one underwear drawer; drowning out commercial negotiations, classroom lectures, rap, rock, and reggae, not to

mention normal dinner table conversation. The rustle caused symphonies to cancel concerts, brides to postpone weddings, and persons unlucky enough to have been born on January 23 to despair of anybody remembering them that year. The rustle grew in volume as the week passed, not only in America but in numerous foreign lands, although the pitch was obviously more mighty in New Orleans, where the Super Bowl would actually be played, than in, say, Ouagadougou, where fans who normally spoke Fulani or Bobo would yell "Touchydown!" in the TV bars of tiny tropical hotels.
Yes, hundreds of concerts, weddings, birthday observances, and political speeches really would be rescheduled so as not to be eclipsed by the Super Bowl, which would be watched by one hundred and forty million Americans. Yet, at Isaac & Ishmael's, the Jerusalem-style restaurant diagonally across the street from the United Nations headquarters building in New York City, Salome, the belly dancer, hadn't budged, despite the rustle all about her. She would dance at three o'clock, and those who wished to watch her had better be there. Others could watch football in a windy courtyard or camped on some sofa, dipping carrot sticks into bowls of weary substances only marginally more appealing than baba ghanoug.
One victim of the I & I dilemma thought he had it figured out. "We've been overlooking something, chaps," he said. "I mean, how long is this Dance of the Seven Veils going to last? Twenty minutes? Not much more than that, I'll assure you. We can have our cake and eat it, some of us. Me, I'm watching her dance, then I'm popping outside for three fine quarters of football plus the halftime show. I'm paying Dr. Farouk to hold me a seat."
Shaftoe chuckled sardonically. "You think you're the first sucker to think of that? Farouk's probably gone and sold that seat he's holding to a dozen fools like you. He's from that part of the world, man. He knows that that dance can go on for hours. And once you start watching, baby, you don't walk out till it's over. Not for nothing."
"Surely for the Super Bowl ..."
Shaftoe laughed again. "She-ee-it. What you know about football? Why, I —" The detective fell silent and returned to his beer.
~
On Friday night, Salome's performance was not up to par. Moody and

distracted, she shimmied at half-speed and twice dropped her tambourine. She glanced repeatedly at the mural on the wall behind her, but it neither relaxed nor inspired her. On Saturday night, the night when New Orleans, New York, and at least one other American city were practically one giant Super Bowl party, she failed to show up at all.
"She has the small fever," the bandleader explained.
"The girl always looks like she has a slight fever," said Abu to Spike. "That is what is so arousing about her."
Singer Bonnie Raitt, one of the celebrities in attendance, got up and entertained the audience by improvising blues to a Middle Eastern beat. She was a hit with both the suburbanites and the hip, as well as the tourists, but the regulars went home early, grumbling about Salome.
"What if she doesn't show up tomorrow? What if she chickens out? Suppose she's got the flu?"
They turned to Shaftoe, but he had nothing to say.
~
On Sunday morning, the sun came up like an engineering project, hoisted with considerable strain up a scaffolding of thin, icy cloud. The sun seemed huge and flat and rough and pale, like the face of a newly constructed dam. Behind it an Amazon of snow roiled and spat, churning to get free.
Patsy was Ellen Cherry's alarm clock. Always awake by seven, Patsy would arise to run through her Jane Fonda workout. Then she would shower, apply cosmetics (never without the thought that Verlin might be spinning in his grave), prepare breakfast, and wake her daughter. On this morning, when Ellen Cherry finished in the bathroom and sat down to cinnamon toast, she found Patsy flipping through the yellow pages, hunting for a Baptist church within walking distance. She had to admit that it was as much habit as anything else.
"Forget it, mama. You want to go to services next Sunday, fine, we'll find you a place. But, hey, today's the big day at the I and I. I mean, the big day. People are gonna be going crazy down there. I'm going in early, just as soon as I eat. You ought to go in with me, because we can use the help, and it might even be interesting, you never can tell."
However crazy Ellen Cherry imagined the scene at Isaac & Ishmael's might be, it was crazier, still. When she arrived, Patsy in tow, at five past ten, there

already was a line out front, stretching down the block and around the corner onto East Forty-ninth. Those who had queued up for the telecast could be distinguished from those intent upon the notorious dance, the former being loud, half-tipsy, and attired in deliberately sloppy duds, while the latter were more refined in deportment and dress, although they, too, maintained a festive air. A third and less populous group seemed anxious, hesitant, nervously subdued. They were the ones who had yet to make up their minds.
Escorted by security guards, Ellen Cherry and Patsy hurried down the alley and into the courtyard. It had been transformed into an outdoor café, covered by an awning striped in the colors of the New York team. The hefty heaters were humming and glowing, each instantly zapping the odd blowing snowflake that drifted into it like a moth into a flame. The mural-sized television set was already on, as if to gather momentum. Mother and daughter paused for a second to look at it. Some sort of pregame spectacle was being telecast, a preview, the announcer said, of the halftime extravaganza, which that year was to salute America's growing Hispanic community. Ellen Cherry believed that she recognized the featured performer. "Well, I'll be double damned!" she marveled. "That looks like ol' Raoul. Raoul the doorman."
Spike increased the volume, whereupon the hunk in the tight silver jumpsuit with the red Puerto Rican sash, the homeboy who was surrounded by scores of dancers and rock 'n' roll musicians and who, except for the absence of a porkpie hat, so resembled Raoul Ritz could be heard to sing:
My heart is a Third World country
And your love is a tourist from Switzerland. Never trust a country that won't allow live poultry To ride on its buses.
Oh, never trust a country
That won't permit live poultry to ride on the bus.
Inside the kitchen, Roland Abu Hadee was actually in his shirtsleeves. The jacket to his conservative pinstriped suit dangling from a hook, Abu was grinding chick-peas with one hand, chopping cucumbers with the other. Nabila, his wife, also was helping prep for the chef. Patsy patted them each on the back, grabbed a knife, and joined in. "Anything a southern gal knows, it's how to cut up a fryer," she said.
Ellen Cherry went into the dining room to lend Teddy a hand with the

setups. "I didn't know Raoul Ritz had a hit song," she said.
"Where've you been?"
That was a good question. She looked to the mural for a clue. She had to
enter it through the beak of an owl.
Other staff members began filtering in. They all worked furiously. While
the game and the dance weren't scheduled to commence until three, the restaurant would open its doors at noon. Spike Cohen made certain that they opened on time.
The crowd, many of its members distinguished officials of the United Nations, galloped in like a stampede of wild mustangs. They pushed, shoved, and fought over the prime tables like teenagers at a heavy metal cafeteria. Many ended up in the courtyard by default. It was less contentious out there than in the dining room and bar, probably because every seat within a quarter mile of the giant TV was a good one. Nobody had spotted Detective Shaftoe on line outside, but suddenly there he was, perched on the bar stool closest to the bandstand, ordering falafel and a Maccabee. One of the Greeks suggested that he had hidden all night in the men's room. "You dudes been reading too many Trojan horse stories," said Shaftoe. In any case, he'd made his choice.
At 12:12, Spike instructed the security guards to block the door. There were at least a hundred people still clamoring to get in, but the occupancy number dictated by the fire marshal already had been exceeded. Those who had gained admission to the dining room and bar were whooping and chattering. Beneath the rambunctious gaiety, however, the atmosphere was decidedly tense. Some patrons seemed secretly afraid to be there, although the root of their fear was not easily determined. Perhaps they were worried about violence. Perhaps it was something less solid.
Spike went out on the sidewalk to meet the press. "The Super Bowl's showing out back," he explained. "Inside, the little dancing lady is doing something special. In a nutshell." He shrugged. The reporters weren't satisfied. They had gotten wind of the Dance of the Seven Veils and badgered for details. Spike told them what he knew, which was precious little, then switched the subject to the I & I experiment. "In the past, my Arab partner and me have said it's a gesture only that we're making here, that we have no illusions about changing the large picture. To tell you the truth, I'm not so sure. This continent of North America, what did it used to be? A torrid swamp, am I right? For millions of years it was a jungle. Then in one minute, one minute, it was all covered up with ice from top to tush. You know your history? Very, very fast,

things can be changing. A continent. A human life. So, the Jews and the Arabs are at each other's throats for years into the thousands. So what? So what it's so long? It could change in one minute. One minute, I'm telling you. It's for the remote possibility of that minute that we stay in business."
"But, Mr. Cohen, when Salome drops the seventh veil, will she be nude?" "Mr. Cohen, you got a silver platter in there?"
"Hoo boy!"
After reiterating that the media was banned, at Salome's request, Spike
went back inside.
"Nothing here," a reporter grumbled. The others agreed.
Meanwhile, Ellen Cherry was locked into fast-forward, moving like a
slapstick character in a silent film. Orders for food and drink were buffeting her like the surf at Drowned Waitress Beach. In her career in food service, she had never worked at quite that pace.
"Jesus!" she exclaimed. "If this keeps up, I'll be medical waste by the end of the day. They'll just shovel me into that incinerator out back of Bellevue."
For better or for worse, it would not keep up. In fact, Ellen Cherry was to discover that while fans in the courtyard would continue to munch and swill throughout the Super Bowl, appetites indoors would taper off dramatically. Once the first veil had fallen, hardly anyone called for anything, except mercy.
At 2:54, there was a roar out on United Nations Plaza, causing the revelers in the I & I to suddenly stiffen and crane their necks. There was a certain amount of concomitant spillage. It sounded like a ruckus out there. The dining room, conversely, was silent and edgy. At 2:55, the front door was flung open by a security guard, and the word "koksaghyz" was coughed into the restaurant, followed by the word "megakaryoblast."
That's how they looked, Salome and her chaperon: like strange words on a road sign or a page that a reader could only wonder at but hardly define or pronounce. Many in the I & I thumbed hastily through the pocket dictionaries of their life's experience, searching for meanings to which they might relate. But would "koksaghyz" seem any less exotic once one learned it was a dandelion of Central Asia? And to be informed that a "megakaryoblast" was simply an immature megakaryocyte was not much help at all. Better, perhaps, to take the words at face value, to let the senses deal with them, or the tip of the spine. The rational mind just got in the way. Besides, a better word for the chaperon, throwing her elbows and swinging her dog coffin of a purse, may have been

"ducatoon." At least "ducatoon" was evocative of her waddle and her squawky aggravation.
But never mind the megakaryoblastic ducatoonish behemoth. Once she had escorted her charge to the bandstand, she vanished behind the orchestra and was forgotten. All eyes were on the koksaghyz; tender, solitary, trembling in the smoke. And speaking of eyes, eyes were nearly all that one could see of her. Salome was so thoroughly swaddled in scarves of gauzy purple silk that only her hands, her bare feet, and her eyes were exposed. Every ring, bell, and bracelet had been removed from her extremities, and her eyes, which resembled shot glasses of warm Hershey syrup, were given over to ansoopia, which is to say, were rolled almost violently upward (think of the heavenward eyeballings of first-time sinners or the traumatic posturing of El Greco saints). She just stood there fidgeting, the ansoopial koksaghyz, fixed upon the ceiling from which the bamboo had flown, stood there wrapped like a conch-shell burrito in the purple- red dyes of Canaan/Phoenicia, stood there for several minutes, picking at her seat, regarding the fresh plaster, until at exactly 3:00 P.M., at precisely the moment that the New York kicker's toe met the ovoid flank of the virgin football, the orchestra struck up her tune.
For the first time, Salome looked at the audience. The French undersecretary winked at her, and Shaftoe sucked in his breath. Of the faces that stared back at her, two of every three were male, and although they had chosen her over the Super Bowl, still, most were flushed with the ruddy concerns of their gender: concerns of possession, profit, and conquest. Salome turned slowly to the mural, where a more lunar sensibility was represented: a loose poetic text of seasons and renewal. Imperceptible to the audience, she emitted a soft, low howl. She rattled her tambourine.
Then, she danced.
This is the room of the wolfmother wallpaper. The room where your oldest living ancestor, the monarch amoeba, holds court in the irrigation ditch at the foot of the bed.
Yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh
Yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh Zinga doppa dop lop zinga
Eh, eh-eh, eh eh zeeee

As her bare feet slapped the floor in time to polyrhythms more ancient than Petra, Salome whirled and dipped and whirled again, slapping and whirling simultaneously, and, moreover, pushing and contracting her pelvis, as if straining to expel a child. Her eyes were wide and hot, and the purple scarves swirled all about her. She danced thusly for close to twenty minutes before the first veil fell.
For some reason, Ellen Cherry, Spike, Abu, and practically everyone else in the room had assumed that the first veil dropped would be an upper one; specifically, the one that obscured her nose and mouth. They assumed erroneously. When it finally fell, fluttering to the floor like the skin of a moonsnake, it bared not her face but her loins. The audience was stunned. Worried about their cabaret license, Spike and Abu panicked. Shaftoe's battered brow furrowed with concern: he was, after all, an officer of the law. Ellen Cherry blushed. She had sunbathed nude with waitress girlfriends in Seattle, but she'd never really focused, been virtually forced to focus, on another woman's pudendum. It was both fascinating and discomfiting. She was glad that Patsy was out back in the courtyard.
Everybody was shocked, even the unshockable. Yet nobody acted to stop the performance. Nobody. And Salome went on whirling and dipping and swooping and arching, and each time that she arched, they found themselves looking into the prettiest and pinkest little slit that anyone could ever imagine, its folds delicate and mysterious, its tiny stinger aimed at them like the gun barrel of a felonious orchid, the curly pelt around it as sleek and moist as the welcome mat at the Bermuda Triangle Hilton.
The veil had not lain long on the floor when Ellen Cherry began to . . . well, to receive ideas. Spontaneously, without preamble, things occurred to her; thoughts entered her mind, one might say, except that they were both more vivid and full-formed than the thoughts that she was accustomed to entertaining, and they were permeated with information that she hadn't realized that she possessed. It was as if they were somebody else's thoughts, zapped by ray into her brain, where instantly they took hold and became her own.
Earth, it occurred to her, was a sexual globe. Unique, in a solar system of dead rocks, snowballs, and gasbags, Earth was a theater, a rotating stage upon which a thin green scum of organic life acted out countless, continual scenes whose content, whether explicit or oblique, was almost wholly sexual. In the biospherical epic, the players were either Seed Packages or Egg Cartons (a few versatile actors such as the amoeba could perform both roles, but it was a dying art), and the scenery, props, and costumes were designed to enhance or facilitate

the coming together of hero seed and heroine egg. The colors, the smells, and the sounds of organic things had evolved as sexual attractants, created to keep the trillion romantic plots moving toward a trillion more-or-less happy endings. Recent observations of the behavior patterns of bonding molecules showed that even on the molecular level, intricate and tricky courtships were constantly transpiring: there was molecular rejection, for example, and presumably molecular heartbreak. Within a broad age span, sexually inactive organisms— plant, animal, molecular, or human—could be said to be aberrations, freakish or pathological misfits out of tune with the harmony of life.
Despite an often ostentatious masculine display that would indicate otherwise, the sexual drama (or melodrama or farce) was largely, historically, directed by the female. That was particularly true among human beings, in which species the male had gone to ludicrous and often violent lengths to compensate for what struck the more insecure of men as an inferior sexual role. One of the lengths to which they went was the establishment of patriarchal religion and the recasting of a father figure as the producer of the show, although from the very beginning, the cosmogonic principal had been feminine. Those men, envious and anxious, not only fired the Great Goddess (who smiled upon all manner of sexual expression, including that which moderns were to label "promiscuous" and "pornographic"), but they also spent thousands of years and billions of dollars trying to conceal the fact of her existence.
And this further thought occurred to Ellen Cherry after the falling aside of Salome's first veil: that whenever society demonstrated signs of rediscovering the goddess, of returning to more feminine value systems, the patriarchally conditioned psyche generated diseases, literal diseases such as syphilis in the hotly romantic nineteenth century and, in the wake of the Sexual Revolution of the 1960s, AIDS. Those diseases were caused not by sexual license but by the fear of sexual license, by the conservative DNA's inability to adjust to hedonism; and they were compounded by guilt over the suppression of the Great Mother and the denial of the sensuality with which she so frequently underscored her coexistence with the void. Eventually, AIDS was destined to run its deadly course, however, and eventually every manner of carnal play would go back into full production, for like it or not, gentlemen, that was the way of her world.
Yes, that's it! thought Ellen Cherry Charles.
Yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh
Yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh

Zop de bango zee whee winga Eh, eh-eh, eh eh haiii
This is the room of the wolfmother wallpaper. This is the room where the boys slept inside their blowguns to avoid being bitten by the bats, for whom the girls sewed tiny velvet suits.
Vulva exposed and sweetly agape, Salome danced on, whirling and arching, until, after another twenty minutes or so, a second veil was pulled loose and tossed gracefully to the floor. This veil had covered her waist and belly, a belly that seemed at once round and flat, a haptic demimound already familiar to her fans, although until that moment they had never drawn dew from the saucy well of its bare navel. Almost immediately, Ellen Cherry received another intellectual transmission.
"Human beings do not have dominion over the plants and animals." That was the message that seemed to flash on her mental screen.
Human beings did not have dominion over the plants and animals. Every daisy in the field, every anchovy in the bay had an identity just as strong as her own, and a station in life as valuable as hers. To disrupt the daily lives of trees and beasts, to take the lives of trees and beasts (except when necessary for basic shelter and sustenance), to drive whole species of tree and beast to extinction was arrogant, profane, and ultimately a boomerang honed for suicide.
Plants and animals—perhaps even minerals and inanimate objects— were in partnership with humans. Moreover, they, not us, were the senior partners, as a result of their experience and their perfection. Plants, especially the psychoactive vines and fungi, had a great deal to teach humanity; in fact, if humanity hoped to evolve rapidly enough to keep philosophically apace with its technological advances, the expeditious and postverbal insights provided by psychotropic vegetation might well be its only salvation. In any case, the welfare and wishes of the inhuman must be taken into consideration by any civilization with legitimate chances for survival, although the issue was not merely pragmatic but moral and aesthetic. Humanity was a function of nature. It could not, therefore, live separately from nature except in a self-deceiving masquerade. It could not live in opposition to nature except in a schizophrenic crime. And it could not blind itself to the wonders of nature without mutating into something too monstrous to love.
Yes, that's it! thought Ellen Cherry.

Yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh
Yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh
Wop za whoppo zeena za-za
Eh, eh-eh, eh eh eeeng
This is the room of the wolfmother wallpaper. The room swept by a broom
made from language. A room where the dust mice are as luminous as grapes. The third purple cloth to float free from the whirling form of the dancing
girl—Salome was whirling more now and arching less—had been wound about her neck and shoulders. Sure enough, as it settled upon the floor, like the filmy soul of a dirty sock landing in a polyester paradise where such earthly woes as toe jam and clothes dryers were only bad memories; sure enough, as it settled in a gossamer heap near the scuffed black shoes of the mesmerized Shaftoe, Ellen Cherry felt another brainful coming on.
She understood suddenly, and for no particular reason of which she was aware, that it was futile to work for political solutions to humanity's problems because humanity's problems were not political. Political problems did exist, all right, but they were entirely secondary. The primary problems were philosophical, and until the philosophical problems were solved, the political problems would have to be solved over and over and over again. The phrase "vicious circle" was coined to describe the ephemeral effectiveness of almost all political activity.
For the ethical, political activism was seductive because it seemed to offer the possibility that one could improve society, make things better, without going through the personal ordeal of rearranging one's perceptions and transforming one's self. For the unconscionable, political reactivism was seductive because it seemed to protect one's holdings and legitimize one's greed. But both sides were gazing through a kerchief of illusion.
The monkey wrench in the progressive machinery of primate evolution was the propensity of the primate band to take its political leaders—its dominant males—too seriously. Of benefit to the band only when it was actively threatened by predators, the dominant male (or political boss) was almost wholly self-serving and was naturally dedicated not to liberation but to control. Behind his chest-banging and fang display, he was largely a joke and could be kept in his place (his place being that of a necessary evil) by disrespect and laughter. If, for example, when Hitler stood up to rant in the beer halls of Munich, the good drinkers had taken him more lightly, had they, instead of buying his act, snickered and hooted and pelted him with sausage skins, the Holocaust might

have been avoided.
Of course, as long as there were willing followers, there would be
exploitive leaders. And there would be willing followers until humanity reached that philosophical plateau where it recognized that its great mission in life had nothing to do with any struggle between classes, races, nations, or ideologies, but was, rather, a personal quest to enlarge the soul, liberate the spirit, and light up the brain. On that quest, politics was simply a roadblock of stentorian baboons.
Exactly! Yes, that's right! thought Ellen Cherry. Eeena eeena eeena eeena
Eh eh-eh eeena whop
This is the room of the wolfmother wallpaper. The room where volcanoes filled the ashtrays with their fine cinders, and the keyhole itself was a fumarole. By her own admission, art was the lone subject in which Ellen Cherry was
at all educated (unless one counted waitressing, and, of course, one could not count waitressing). It could be said that she was a specialist. Or, less charitably, charged that she was as much of an idiot savant as Boomer Petway. Outside of the realm of the artistic, she'd been a bit of a ditz. Yet, she felt now as if she had reached an understanding in several significant areas, had reached it suddenly, effortlessly; had reached it—and this was the queerest part—during the hour and twenty minutes that she had spent watching Salome dance. If there was a connection between the revelations and the dancing, she could not conceive of it. She had to admit that the girl, despite her snotty disposition and skinny legs, was amazing, whirling like that for well over an hour, but Salome's impact certainly was not on the mind. In fact, the girl was making her rather horny, she who had never been tempted by other women before. And that made it all the more extraordinary that she was simultaneously entertaining big abstract thoughts. Only they weren't self-generated thoughts so much as they were— Well, it was as if a coating of something was being peeled off of her corneas and she was seeing things for which the eye game had barely prepared her.
It occurred to Ellen Cherry then that not one customer had ordered so much as a glass of water in a very long while. She wondered if they, too, were receiving wisdom from the Dance of the Seven Veils; if anybody else was hosting those verbose epiphanies.
From face to face she glanced. They were definitely absorbed. That surly

old black detective appeared absolutely paralyzed, his can of Maccabee welded to his lips. And Dr. Farouk, who'd slipped in from the courtyard between quarters to take a quick peek at Salome, had frozen in his steps, his fez-topped bulk blocking the passageway. Above the sound of the orchestra it was difficult to hear clearly, but indications were that the Super Bowl crowd out back was hectic and merry compared to the almost reverential mood of those indoors. Still, it was impossible for Ellen Cherry to ascertain if anyone was sharing her insights. To do so, maybe one would have had to have been recently exposed to close encounters with a spoon.
Eeena eeena eeena eeena Eh eh-eh eeena zop
A fourth veil came undone, circled several times the gyrating torso of the dancer (it had somehow been wrapping both of her arms) like a gaseous cloud of star stuff orbiting a galaxy, before finally breaking the gravitational attraction and wafting toward a new home on the edge of the bandstand. Ellen Cherry understood then that religion was an improper response to the Divine.
Religion was an attempt to pin down the Divine. The Divine was eternally in flux, forever moving, shifting shape. That was its nature. It was absolute, true enough: absolutely mobile. Absolutely transcendent. Absolutely flexible. Absolutely impersonal. It had its god and goddess aspects, but it was ultimately no more male or female than it was star or screwdriver. It was the sum of all those things, but that sum could never be chalked on a slate. The Divine was beyond description, beyond knowing, beyond comprehension. To say that the Divine was Creation divided by Destruction was as close as one could come to definition. But the puny of soul, the dull of wit, weren't content with that. They wanted to hang a face on the Divine. They went so far as to attribute petty human emotions (anger, jealousy, etc.) to it, not stopping to realize that if God were a being, even a supreme being, our prayers would have bored him to death long ago.
The Divine was expansive, but religion was reductive. Religion attempted to reduce the Divine to a knowable quantity with which mortals might efficiently deal, to pigeonhole it once and for all so that we never had to reevaluate it. With hammers of cant and spikes of dogma, we crucified and crucified again, trying to nail to our stationary altars the migratory light of the world.
Thus, since religion bore false witness to the Divine, religion was

blasphemy. And once it entered into its unholy alliance with politics, it became the most dangerous and repressive force that the world has ever known.
Yes! I see it now, thought Ellen Cherry. The religious training I was given as a girl was a form of child abuse.
And she thought she heard somebody next to her say, "Yeah! That's right! I see it now."
Eeena eeena, eeena-eeena ai Eh, eh-eh, wop wop haj
In the room of the wolfmother wallpaper, a woodpecker flies in through the transom and leaves three farts: one on a hot skillet, one in a bottle, and one between the strings of an autoharp. Room service.
The founding of a religion is an elaborated version of pitching coins into a wishing well or spitting off a bridge, Ellen Cherry was thinking. I guess people have an innate superstitious urge to want to fill a void. As she was thinking this, Salome began shedding veil number five, releasing it as she whirled. It had concealed her ankles, calves, knees, and lower thighs, that section of the dancer's body that Ellen Cherry had snidely characterized as overly thin. With the falling of that scarf, there vanished the last vestiges of any illusion one might have retained about money.
Whenever a state or an individual cited "insufficient funds" as an excuse for neglecting this important thing or that, it was indicative of the extent to which reality had been distorted by the abstract lens of wealth. During periods of so-called economic depression, for example, societies suffered for want of all manner of essential goods, yet investigation almost invariably disclosed that there were plenty of goods available. Plenty of coal in the ground, corn in the fields, wool on the sheep. What was missing was not materials but an abstract unit of measurement called "money." It was akin to a starving woman with a sweet tooth lamenting that she couldn't bake a cake because she didn't have any ounces. She had butter, flour, eggs, milk, and sugar, she just didn't have any ounces, any pinches, any pints. The loony legacy of money was that the arithmetic by which things were measured had become more valuable than the things themselves.
There then followed some fairly standard wisdom along the lines of how it was easier for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of Heaven (when one considered how often that currency

served as the paper representation of a big rigid ego, and how that heaven, on the other hand, was the loose state of egolessness, one saw what Jesus was driving at), to which Ellen Cherry was positive she overheard Spike Cohen exclaim, "Hoo! How true it is!" Then, the tambourine banged like a fist on a jewel box, and Salome entered the extended series of exquisite whirls that would climax with the dropping of the cloth from her breasts.
"Mmm. Nice tits," remarked the bartender, a sentiment that echoed around the room. They were a young girl's tits, only slightly larger than Ellen Cherry's, but they were as perfectly formed as the wheels of a bicycle and seemed to subscribe to no theory of gravity. Glistening with perspiration, they resembled oversize tulip bulbs bathed by a fine spring rain. They heaved from Salome's exertion like jellyfish in a choppy tide, a condition that some found prurient and others distasteful. In any case, none took their eyes off her, even though a brassy fellow yelled from the courtyard door, "Hey! New York just kicked a field goal to go ahead!"
Eeena eeena, eeena-eeena haj
Beneath the floorboards of this room, schoolgirls operate a diamond mine. Every card on the table is the queen of diamonds. And the wallpaper howls at the moon.
Revelations were starting to overlap. Ellen Cherry was just thinking about how no amount of money could buy security, and if it could, it would be a bad bargain at any price, since security was a form of paralysis, just as satisfaction was a form of death; she was thinking something in that category when the sixth veil flew away from Salome's likable, lickable breasts, and abruptly her mind was occupied with notions of time, history, and the afterlife. She saw that the past was a recent invention, that people sacrificed the present to a future that never really came, that those who tied all of their dreams to an afterlife had no life for there to be an "after" of; saw that time was a meadow not a highway; that the psyche was an all-night restaurant, not a museum or a church; and that on every conceivable level, belief in a hereafter was hazardous to health. Moreover, the world would not be destroyed, at least not until the sun pooped out in about two billion years—and by then there would be other options.
"But what about Judgment Day?" Ellen Cherry found herself whispering. Every day is Judgment Day. Always has been. Always will be.

"Anything else?"
Yes. Just this. The dead are laughing at us. "Wow," said Ellen Cherry Charles.
~
For hours, the Reverend Buddy Winkler had been pacing the floor of his office. Cracking his knuckles. Grinding his gold teeth. Scratching his face until the pustules broke and bled. He was just so blessed dad-blamed all-fired frustrated! He could hardly stand it! Lordy lordy lordy lordy law. All those many long lonely months, years even, that he'd been preparing himself, priming himself, honing himself for one monumental and glorious act: the bringing down of the Dome of the Rock so that the Third Temple might rise in its place. This very day, Sunday, January 23, was when the holy explosives were supposed to go off. Today! And here he was, hamstrung, impotent; stuck among the niggers and the dope fiends and the sodomites in New York City, not only deprived of the opportunity to personally fulfill his God-appointed mission but unable to be on hand in Jerusalem in case the rabbis and yeshivas went ahead and bombed the damned mosques without him (which probably would not happen, the CIA would see to that).
Lordy lordy law, he was fit to be tied. He was about to explode his own self. He needed an outlet for the righteous energy, the redemptive fury, with which Jehovah had flooded him.
It was going on five in the afternoon when Buddy hit upon the idea of venting a little spleen on Isaac & Ishmael's. If ever an establishment needed a sharp whack with God's flyswatter, the I & I was it. Those peacenik humanists! That dancing girl! That blabbermouth Jezebel of Verlin Charles's! Yep. Bud allowed as to how he might amble down there and wag a finger or two at their shame. He telephoned several of his Zionist friends, but they were all watching the Super Bowl. So were his contacts in the Little Matches of Jesus. Okey- dokey. Let the fools sully the Sabbath with their trivial games. Buddy would go it alone.
Yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh

Yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh Zinga dopla dop lop zinga
Eh, eh-eh, eeena-eeena ai
This is the room, all right, but the candles have burned down, the lamps are dry, and the blue neon has blown a fuse. The wallpaper might as well be stone. In the blackness there can be heard a low, perpetual rattling and a click click click click. It is Jezebel's bones. Or else the rolling of the dice.
. The teenager was completely naked then, except for the short purple veil that masked her face. Abu and Spike were beyond worrying over the illegality of the situation. Detective Shaftoe certainly wasn't about to arrest her. He was himself in irons. Nobody moved, and above the whine, drone, and drumming of the orchestra, no sound was audible except for Salome's labored breathing. She had been dancing for more than two hours and obviously was near exhaustion. The dance appeared to be winding down. The whirls were elongated, slow and dreamy now, although they'd lost little if any of their impact. She turned as if knee-deep in fruit pulp, and the hypnotized audience followed her as helplessly as if she were the cufflinks of Mandrake the Magician.
Earlier, much earlier, in the afternoon, Ellen Cherry had considered applying the eye game to the dancer, but decided it would have been akin to painting a second smile on the Mona Lisa. Now, she was incapable of that kind of self-control, even if she had deemed it desirable. Her mind was calm, yet humming with activity, and Salome seemed to hold on to it with small sweaty fingers, the way that she held on to her tambourine.
When the seventh veil new away from Salome's face, it was as if the girl had opened her mouth and burped out a bird-sized butterfly. Ellen Cherry's first thought was, How beautiful she is! Her second thought was, Everybody's got to figure it out for themselves.
Yes, that was it. The government wouldn't take care of it for you, no matter how much you'd paid into Social Security, or how many votes your political action committee may have bought. You couldn't learn it in college, colleges chose largely to ignore it. Churches, conversely, were falling all over themselves to save you the trouble of thinking about it; they would hand you an answer as neat and tidy and definitive as your horoscope in the daily paper—and, unfortunately, just about as useless because it was just about as generic and every bit as speculative. Great books, paintings, and music were helpful, in an inspirational way; nature, even more so. Valuable clues were constantly dropping

from the lips of philosophers, spiritual masters, gurus, shamans, gypsy circus girls, and wild-talking tramps in the street. But they were clues, only. No self- proclaimed holy man could cut the mustard for you, and the ones who were truly holy would tell you so. Nor could you turn it over to some chatty, disembodied entity channeled from the other side. (The dead are laughing at us, remember.) You couldn't even learn it at your mammy's knee.
The illusion of the seventh veil was the illusion that you could get somebody else to do it for you. To think for you. To hang on your cross. The priest, the rabbi, the imam, the swami, the philosophical novelist were traffic cops, at best. They might direct you through a busy intersection, but they wouldn't follow you home and park your car.
Was there a more difficult lesson for a human being to leam, a paradox harder to accept? Even though the great emotions, the great truths, were universal; even though the mind of humanity was ultimately one mind, still, each and every single individual had to establish his or her own special, personal, particular, unique, direct, one-on-one, hands-on relationship with reality, with the universe, with the Divine. It might be complicated, it might be a pain in the ass, it might be, most of all, lonely—but it was the bottom line.
It was as different for everybody as it was the same, so everybody had to take control of their own life, define their own death, and construct their own salvation. And when you finished, you didn't call the Messiah. He'd call you.
Um, well, okay, thought Ellen Cherry, I guess I understand. But wait a minute. This isn't all? Surely there's more? There must be something else.
The dance was ending. Salome executed one last passionate pirouette, slapped both feet resoundingly against the floor, then staggered to a stop. She stood facing, but not looking at, the audience; her eyes downcast, her mouth gasping, her entire respiratory system convulsing, her legs wobbling as if about to give way. Oddly, nobody, not even her chaperon, made a move to support her or to cover her nakedness. The room was silent, transfixed.
Ellen Cherry's condition was not measurably superior to the dancer's. She was tremulous, flushed, in a kind of trance. She was in the room and not in the room. Her mind whirled endlessly upon a dance floor of ideas. Instinctively, she sensed that once the last of the veils had dropped, some greater, more all- inclusive secret should have been exposed; she should have been squinting at the contours of the Mystery. Thus, she squinted at poor Salome, who continued to stand there, shaking, panting, dressed in angel chaps of sweat. And she thought,

Come on, now. What's the punch line? There's got to be something else. Until, finally, a voice inside her said:
"We're making it up."
Who? What?
"Us. All of us. It. All of it. The world, the universe, life, reality. Especially reality."
We're making it up?
"We make it up. We made it up. We shall make it up. We have been making it up. I make it up. You make it up. He, she, it makes it up."
Okay, I'm an artist, I can accept that. In theory. But how do I apply it to my daily life?
"You'll have to figure ..."
it out jor myself. But hold on. Please don't go away. Can't you at least leave me with some advice?
"You need more?" (The inner voice was incredulous.)
Yes. Please. A little more. A speck more in the line of practical advice.
"Very well. The trick is this: keep your eye on the ball. Even when you can't see the ball."
You're kidding, thought Ellen Cherry Charles.
Ellen Cherry made for the door. She had to get out of there and get out fast. All that had transpired seemed perfectly natural to her, as natural as daydreaming or brainstorming or the eye game; she was overwhelmed, to be sure, but hardly frightened or bewildered; she was, in fact, in a state rather next to wahoo. But she needed to change spaces, to get some air.
Others, perhaps as many as twenty, followed her out. And when she turned the corner and headed up East Forty-ninth they did likewise. It wasn't as though they were interested in her, but, rather, that she was in the lead of a group that was being swept along by its own stupefied momentum.
The group was far enough down the block that it failed to hear the commotion back at Isaac & Ishmael's.
At exactly the moment that they were turning the corner, Buddy Winkler had pushed his way into the restaurant. When he had spotted Salome, still standing there naked (her chaperon was in the act of draping a coat about her), he'd rushed the bandstand, nearly falling over Roland Abu Hadee, who, for some reason, was on his hands and knees, picking up the discarded veils. Some witnesses later testified that the Reverend Buddy Winkler had shouted, "Beast!

Great Fornicator! Whore of Babylon!" Others would claim that he was merely sputtering and growling. In any case, he charged the girl and grabbed her by the throat.
Detective Shaftoe shot him dead.
The two security guards ran in, guns blazing, just as they had seen it done in the movies. Salome was shot accidentally, Shaftoe more or less on purpose.
*
Both were critically wounded but, in time, recovered.
Jackie Shaftoe, once he could walk again, retired from the police force and
devoted his days to painting, with moderate success. His major influence, he was ever quick to point out, was Ellen Cherry Charles. He never attended another football game nor watched one on TV.
Once she could breathe without the aid of a respirator, the Jewish/ Arab girl who called herself "Salome" was whisked by her guardians out of the country, presumably to Lebanon—once known as Phoenicia, an extension of the land of Canaan.
~
Scattered snowflakes as large as postage stamps were spinning in the dusk, but the temperature was rather mild, a benefit to Ellen Cherry, who had neglected to don her coat. She did shiver slightly as she passed the Mel Davis Dog Boutique, but it was not due to the weather. If we're making everything up, she wondered, why are we making up doggy salons? Sushi bars, she could understand, which was nice, because she and the motley band of ecstatics who tagged along with her must have passed a dozen of them, closed for the Sabbath, the green furnaces of their wasabi banked against the night.
As the group neared Lexington Avenue, it became aware that a great many automobiles were blowing their horns. That was unusual for a Sunday evening and had not the "pilgrims" been so blissed-out, some of them might have taken it personally. On Park Avenue, sedate Park, the automotive blare increased, and on Madison, people were yelling from the windows of hotels and cars. Approaching Fifth, Ellen Cherry paused to listen. The others paused behind her. In the distance, a great din could be detected, a singing and cheering and banging sort of din, as if, in a parking lot many blocks away, the Woodstock rock festival was being reenacted. At last, the "pilgrims" had a destination. They crossed Fifth,

then Sixth, and turned southward toward the roar, their waitress, Ellen Cherry, leading their advance.
Times Square was in turmoil. There were thousands, perhaps tens of thousands, there. A huge noisy surge of humanity clogged every artery, like animated cholesterol, halting vehicular traffic for blocks in all directions. Drivers leaned on their horns, but less in anger or frustration than in joy. As for the multitudes on foot, they whooped like warriors on an ancient rampage, danced, jumped up and down, slapped one another's palms repeatedly and ritualistically, and raised their index fingers in the air. Grinning boys of many races chugged beer from quart bottles, and intoxicated girls flashed their bare breasts at the mobs, just as they might in New Orleans at Mardi Gras. Mardi Gras, in fact, was what it resembled, except for the occasional dancing snowflake and the absence of masks. It was a celebration, a mighty, riotous jubilee—and the dazed group from Isaac & Ishmael's jumped to the conclusion that what was being celebrated was the end of illusion, the undraping of the Mystery, the genesis of a grand new age.
Even Ellen Cherry, momentarily, thought that the spontaneous outpouring had been unleashed by the Dance of the Seven Veils. Gradually, however, it dawned on her that what was being celebrated, what had whipped the population into exultant frenzy, was New York's victory in the Super Bowl game.
Symbolically, perhaps, Ellen Cherry swam against the current, fighting her way out of Times Square even as hundreds fought their way in. At one point, her forward progress arrested by a knot of Jersey guys through which she could not slice, she used the delay to scan the front pages of newspapers at a kiosk. A prominently featured article bore a Jerusalem dateline. In its lead paragraph, it reported that a squad of Israeli soldiers had employed a bulldozer to bury alive a half dozen West Bank Arab youths (one as young as eleven) whom they suspected of stoning military vehicles. In the second paragraph, it described how a pair of Palestinians had stabbed to death four innocent Israeli civilians and an American tourist at a sidewalk café in Jerusalem. As the Arabs shoved their long knives into stomachs, hearts, lungs, they had shouted, "God is great! God is great!"
Sickened, she turned, found a seam in the mob, and snaked through. She pushed, and was pushed, back to Fifth Avenue. There, she walked to the north, the crowds growing thinner, the din fainter with each step. By the time that she reached St. Patrick's Cathedral, she was virtually alone on the sidewalk, although

Times Square roared behind her like a distant waterfall of parrots and soup pots, and every other passing motorist had his palm on his horn.
At St. Patrick's she slackened her pace. Instantly, she saw, or thought she saw, a flash of purple fabric behind a shin-level grate. It so resembled one of Salome's falling veils that she was convinced that she was hallucinating. I'll probably be seeing them everywhere, she thought. I'm really in a state.
Ellen Cherry walked a few yards further, stopping at the place where Turn Around Norman had performed. Deliberately, she planted her feet as precisely as possible on the spot where his feet always stood. She closed her eyes and even tried turning a fraction of an inch to her left, but her slow motion was far too fast.
"Turn Around Norman," she said aloud. "Where does magic and beauty go when it's driven from the world?"
At the grate, there was another flicker of purple, but she wasn't inclined to investigate. She just stood there, a snow stamp pasted to her forehead as if she were about to be mailed to the Yukon, wondering about Turn Around Norman until there was nothing left to wonder. Then, recalling the newspapers that she had seen, she wondered, Why are we making up a mess like the Middle East?
The dance was over. The veils were all dropped. The cascade of epiphanies had ceased. The inner voice was mute, and that was fine, it had given her more than enough guidance, more than enough understanding, more than enough to figure out for herself. Nevertheless, she believed that she would try to summon it one more time. Standing in Turn Around Norman's footprints, she squeezed her eyelids and began to hum an approximation of the music that had filled the I & I all afternoon.
Yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh yeeh Eeena eeena, eh-eh, haj
What about this Middle East business? Why is it making everybody crazy? Why is it so awful? Is it really totally hopeless? I need to know.
For a long while she heard nothing except Super Bowl fallout. It didn't surprise her. She brushed a snowflake from her nose (Antarctica, twenty-two cents). What could she expect? Ah, but then an answer began to build in her brain, slowly, organically, like bees excreting comb.
Consider the anatomy of the Middle East, said the inner voice. Hasn't it been called the Fertile Crescent, the primordial uterus from which the human

race emerged? Well, look at it today, consider it now. Of all the places on the planet, it is the most feverish, hot, pain-racked, tense, dilated, bloody, traumatized, stretched to the point of ripping. Remind you of something? The "trouble" in the Middle East is nothing but natal contractions. The world is in labor, and the Middle East, quite obviously, is the vagina out of which, if it doesn't abort, the new order of humanity must be born. The labor is difficult and long, and it may get worse before the vagitus is heard, but don't despair over the Middle East: something great, something wondrous, something completely unimaginable is there aborning.
Arc you putting me on? asked Ellen Cherry Charles. But then a carload of loudmouths drove by, chanting the score of the Super Bowl game, and she heard nothing further, nor could she generate another pertinent thought.
~
The next evening, she flew to Jerusalem. Her mama paid for part of her expenses, Spike Cohen paid the rest. Her benefactors drove her to JFK and saw her off.
On the way home from the airport, in the backseat of a limo, Patsy and Spike fell in love. They later married, settling in Brooklyn Heights, where Patsy took belly dancing lessons and where her white go-go boots finally got the attention they deserved.
The mere thought of it would one day cause Ellen Cherry to lose her lifelong fondness for shoes.
~
Rusty metal caught the morning sun like a ruby brooch catching the eye of a burglar. Had Can o' Beans been human, he/she might have stretched and yawned. It was a new day in Jerusalem, a city that, in one state of disrepair or another, had seen so very many new days; and in a rock pile a couple hundred yards west of the Jaffa Gate, the bean tin, or what remained of it, greeted this morning, as it did every morning, with the rusted-out, inanimate equivalent of a grin.
The Atlantic, from whose waters Conch Shell could not fully shield it, had taken a terrible toll on the can. Oxidation had enveloped it like an orange mitten

enveloping a fist, and then disintegration had set in. "I'm just a tired old bum beside a railroad track," Can o' Beans told a beloved companion. "A busted, rusted derelict fit for nothing but the two-bit harmonica junkyard blues." Of course, that lament was fanciful, if not wholly tongue in cheek.
The hope that Israel's arid climate might extend the tin's life expectancy for another six months could not alter the fact that it was a goner; encrusted, crushed, cracked, and worn as thin as the whiskers on a billy goat. Still, it was happy with its final resting place. Can o' Beans, you see, loved, absolutely adored, the statue of Pales.
Painted Stick and Conch Shell, who had had little trouble locating each other once they were back on their old stomping grounds, had invited him/her to accompany them to the Dome of the Rock, where now they were in some manner or other unofficially ensconced, awaiting the advent of the Third Temple, in whatever form it might take. Grateful for their offer, Can o' Beans had nevertheless declined. "I'd just be in the way," he/she said. "I have nothing to contribute. And the Messiah, should he—or she—or it—decide to put in an appearance, doesn't need rubbish like me underfoot. Besides, I like it right here in this little plaza. Just look at that statue! How mischíevous it is, how lurid and full of life. And it's androgynous! It's AC/DC! In regard to gender, that donkey covers the waterfront. This is my Temple of Jerusalem."
The sun climbed higher over the most revered, most bloodied town on earth. The sun felt at home in Jerusalem. The sun had connections there. And though it was a long way from a Safeway shelf, Can o' Beans felt at home there, too. He/she sat among the rocks, as still as an inanimate object ought to be, enjoying the warmth, admiring Pales, and observing the people who came to photograph or point at Pales, many of them with an air of outrage.
About that time, Can o' Beans noticed Boomer Petway. He/she noticed Boomer not because he/she remembered him from their Airstream turkey ride— Boomer was in disguise now and hardly could be recognized as the fellow who'd deserted him/her in that cave after so thoroughly and entertainingly partaking of his wife— but, rather, noticed him because of his gait. "Isn't it odd," he/she said to his/her nursemaid and companion, "that every morning about this time a different person comes and walks around and around the monument with the same identical limp. Oh, what a marvelously weird place this is!"
Jerusalem didn't seem so weird to Ellen Cherry. Where she sat in the overgrown garden of the little stone house that Boomer had shared with Amos

Zif, the vectors of death cults, past or present, did not reach her. The February sunshine was just strong enough to buzz in her plasma, and the light was almost impossibly clear. From the weedy patio, there spread a field of rosemary and thistle. Honeysuckle wound bureaucratically around the trunks of Persian lilac and wind-bent pine. Birds chirped messages older than prophecy, older than tourism, and even the furry black centipedes that scurried along the crumbling garden wall appeared benign. She sipped her tea, drew on the pages of her mental sketch pad, and absorbed through every pore that she could open, the ancient golden light.
Ellen Cherry was awaiting the return of her husband. Each morning, after they'd had their sex and breakfast, Boomer dug into his spy bag, selected a disguise, and went down to the plaza by the Old City's Jaffa Gate to ascertain that nobody had bombed, censored, or vandalized his creation during the night.
From the moment of its unveiling, a fortnight prior, the piece had generated an uproar. Much of the adverse reaction was elicited by Pales' two-for-the-price- of-one frontal nudity, but many also took offense on racial grounds, the figure being both Arabic and Jewish. However, few in government or elsewhere had yet caught on that the prancing donkey-person represented for Arab and Jew a common ancestral deity, because few had been taught that it was for the prince of jackasses, the buck-toothed empress of jennies, that their solemnized and contested land had, appropriately or not, been named. When that information emerged, either Jerusalemites would lighten up or the falafel would really hit the fan. In anticipation of the latter, Zif had embarked on an extended tour of France. Boomer wasn't worried. What could they do to him? He'd been ordered to leave the country in thirty days anyhow, as a result of the shipment of Armageddon paraphernalia that he had received from the late Buddy Winkler.
In spite of everything, Boomer had hopes for the survival of his sculpture, so he ventured out morning after morning to survey its condition. When he came home, he delighted in making love to Ellen Cherry while still wearing the disguise dujour. She admitted that that could occasionally be exciting, such as the time that he'd been in drag as a nun, but today he was dressed as a municipal rat catcher, and she knew that she was going to have to draw the line.
Beyond that, the future was uncertain. Doubtlessly, she would leave Jerusalem along with Boomer, although her curiosity about the new dimension of being that was aborning there had hardly been satisfied. They talked about building a house near Seattle somewhere; a roomy, rustic lodge on one of those evergreen hills, if they could find one that the timber companies hadn't skinned

alive. There, with her eye on the ball, she would paint. She'd paint and paint and paint. She would dedicate herself to ... well, she'd have to call it "beauty," for want of a better word. She wouldn't be sentimental about it, or self-righteous, or even spiritual and pure. And she wouldn't get defensive when ridiculed or misunderstood. Beauty she would not carry like a banner, nor would she take refuge from the world in it like a hermit in a shack. Beauty would just be her everyday thing.
Meanwhile, there was so much to think about. All that had been revealed to her—and to who knew how many others?—when Salome danced the Dance of the Seven Veils. Those revelations might require her to grow in unexpected directions. The others might similarly
grow. What effect, if any, that mutant growth might have on the culture at large, in the earth's "Final Days," remained to be seen. Meanwhile, the garden there in Jerusalem, the sunny patio there at the cervix of the world, was a fine place to ponder it all.
Ellen Cherry was relaxed, calm, at peace. The roller coaster ride was over. Those years of feeling on top of things one week, squashed by them the next, had fallen away like the pages of a calendar. Those bizarre events that had haunted her in New York were swiftly fading memories. From now on—she could sense it—her existence would be stable, maybe even staunch; the life of a relatively normal artist in which relatively normal events transpired. She sighed like a feather pillow being fluffed by an old Norwegian maid. She took a long, slow sip of tea.
Moments later, Boomer bolted into the garden. It didn't much look like Boomer but it was he. He was carrying something, presenting it to her like a gift. God, she hoped it wasn't the tail of a dead rat.
"Looky here, bagel britches!" he practically shouted. "Looky what 1 found for you lying in the rubble on the edge of Pales Plaza. It's a spoon! A little ol' spoon! Exactly like the one we lost in that cave that day! I mean exactly
