Headspace


I was pretty lonely when I first started working at the Hospital. Sure, I had relationships with some of the patients, like Mrs. Kemson. Occasionally when I was on break we would play Backgammon over tea and she would tell me about her sons and their magnificent lives. Last time we played she told me about her oldest son, the Prince of Monaco, and how he was recently wedded to the stunning Grace Kelly. She was devastated when she heard about the accident on the news, and they doubled her Ativan after her last hysterical fit. After that we weren’t allowed to play anymore, and honestly that decision was for the best, as the structure of her delusions quickly faded into nebulous ramlings.
        Mr. Salvatori and I would talk of his time in the War, of his escapades with Japanese women during the ensuing American Occupation. He told me that was his peak, when he really felt like a God. They don’t let the patients smoke, so I would smuggle the old man an occasional pack of Turkish Royals, his favorite. I would sneak him up to the roof when the rest of the staff wasn’t looking, and we would burn dart after dart, exchanging confidences and sharing reveries in the good old-fashioned way. Then Mr. Salvatori got sick, and they said it was in his lungs. The doctors knew he had been smoking, and the source was quickly traced back to me. 
        After that I was told not to “keep intimate relationships with patients”, whatever the hell that means. They told me the continuation of my employment depended on it, so I kept my head down and tended to my duties. I lived alone, so really I didn’t talk to much of anyone on a daily basis. For months I just existed, floating from one day to the next and from one compartment of my mind to another. Then they hired Ms. White, that stunning force of a woman. She broke the ice, slinging a nasty pun in her sweet vocal cadence about how my hat reminded her of a condom. I swear I laughed so hard I almost cracked a rib! Ms. White and I began speaking on a somewhat regular basis, about her home life and the nonexistence of mine. People would stare at us, seemingly in disapproval, maybe because of our contrasting colors. The sneers didn’t bother us though, and we found out over time we actually shared a common perspective on existence, on our purpose and the nature of things.        
Ernesto was the next person I met here, and we connected over an obscure Dostoyevsky novel that we had both recently finished. Ernesto was surprisingly well educated for an immigrant, and we bonded over our shared passions for literature and mechanics. Ernesto would tell me about the hotrod in his garage, about the neon-orange top coat he just applied, or the power specs that he was planning under the hood. I always dreamed of building a hotrod, and in a way I was living vicariously through Ernesto and his project. He was actually doing it!
        People looked at me funny when I would talk to Ernesto, which I understood, but then they started looking at me like that all the time, even when I was alone. This was off putting, as I was already somewhat socially anxious. I started looking at the floor as I did my work, and this pushed me further into the recessions of my mind. I remember when Mr. Talis brought me into his office, the echoed click-clack of his leather boots on the linoleum was unmistakable as he approached me in the main hall. He brought me into the office and sat me on a large wooden chair that was bolted to the ground. The chair was one used for patients, so it had restraints fashioned to the arm and head rests. He cautiously asked me if I had made any new friends, and I told him about Ms. White and Ernesto, about how I thought they were both grand at their jobs and impressive people in general. Mr. Talis watched me pensively as I told him the details. I asked if either of them were in trouble somehow, and Mr. Talis responded with a chuckle. Then I felt the needle sink into my neck, the warm contents empty into the corroded artery and flood throughout my mind and body. The world became soft and rubbery, but I felt Mr. Talis rest his hands on my shoulders and say softly into my ear “Your friends aren’t real, sport. They only exist in your head, and your head is very sick. Lucky for you we can take care of you here”.