I decided to watch a concert titled: “Sound of Mirrors Live” by Dhafer Youssef, Ustad Zakir Hussain, and Husnu Senlendirici. This performance spanned quite a few genres, from hints of Dhrupad to jazz and even blues. I really enjoyed this performance, it blended a few aspects of (western) performances that I have seen in the past (Snarky Puppy, Shabaka and the Ancestors) but seemed more authentic to the heritage of many aspects of these performances I enjoy. The variety in the performance was also astonishing to me, as they seemed to switch between entire worlds with absolutely no problem.  






The performance starts with possibly the most insane sequence of vocals I have ever heard, with Youssef blasting an exceptionally high pitched and strong sequence of tones separated by what I think is a half step. Youssef’s vocals are matched almost perfectly by an instrument that looks like a clarinet played by Senlendirici. The duo soar together for a while, and once they stop Youssef comes back in on what looks like a twelve-string oud, playing up and down a melodic scale with the characteristic pulses of the Hindustani vein. Hussain comes in slowly with the tabla, meshing in cleanly with the other two. The three rotate into the focal point, riffing in progressively come complex ways as they reach a climax. They calm back down and eventually there is silence followed by an applause. A brief interlude.The trio start back up at the same time, playing what sounds like a hybridization of a classic alap and a modern alternative rock song, complete with catchy little licks and even pentatonic exploration. The oud gets progressively bolder, seamlessly integrating bluesy licks with fast and complex harmonic minor dashes. The tabla and clarinet have been keeping a steady, rather slow groove in the background. The clarinet jumps to the foreground with a tune meant to tame a magical snake, with the oud stepping back into a short, punchy rhythm. They all jump into a chorus of sorts, playing the same short melody over and over, with slight rotating variations. There is a short climax, and bang, silence again. A short commentary in what I believe is German by Youssef. They start again, very slow tempo this time. The oud leads, with rapid strumming filling the few spaces in the air. The tabla comes in, accenting the background with patters, as the clarinet follow the melody of the oud. They all come together, following an ethereal sort of progression, getting lower and slower. There is a near silence, followed this time by an even slower dance of the tabla and oud. The clarinet comes in, perfectly synced with the oud. The tempo changes again, with the tabla taking almost a stutter before the 4th pat. The oud and clarinet circle each other, reflecting. They all become sedated, slowing to a crawl and decelerating still. The trough, then they pick back up, faster and faster into an almost flamenco-like groove. They pulse slow again, really drawing out their notes. Silence. Applause. They start again, a deep, electric bassy sounding riff comes from the oud. The tabla pops in with a consistent tempo. The clarinet matches the oud for a stint, then the oud goes off on another tangent. This cycle repeats a few times. It sounds sort of like a snarky puppy performance, feeding each other and building in a very improvisational way. Shofukan, that’s the one. The clarinet goes into a solo, really pushing to the top of his range. He switches with the tabla, and Hussain goes into an absolutely mad sequence of polyrhythms, tucking into the end of the performance. Applause.