The first time I remember I was on the staircase of my mother’s summer cottage. They creaked, even under my tiny weight. She had told me to go brush my teeth, but instead I just pretended to run up the stairs by making the noises and then stood there cowering. I ran back down after what I thought was a reasonable amount of time, and told her I had. She could sense it and knew immediately. I was mortified, and sat in the back seat of her Volkswagen with a black pit in my center. 


My 9th grade friends and I had conned one of our parents into taking us to Northstar. We and our bikes had been crammed in the back of the Suburban for hours, and we ran for the ticket office even though we all desperately needed to pee. I told them my name was Justin Leer and I had lost my season pass. We figured our shared ruddy complexion and meager height would suffice for proof, but they immediately asked for my phone number. I told them I had changed it. They asked for my ZIP code. I told them I had moved. They asked me if I could provide any proof whatsoever, and informed me that deceiving them in this fashion was a crime called fraud and that I could be banned from the park forever. I walked away with my tail between my legs, after I purchased a lift ticket at full price.  


My parents and I were young. There was a girl scout troop staying at the bed and breakfast, or hostel, or whatever it was we were staying at. We were playing a trivia game with cards that have both the clues and answers on them, read in rotation by one person to the rest. I was doing poorly, as I was a small child and knew very little of the world, and my nascent ego was bruised. I snuck around the couch and peered over the shoulder of the clue reader. The answer was “Gone with the Wind”. I snuck back around and I waited until the clue was read. I blurted the answer coarsely, pronouncing it wind, as in to wind a watch. They were apparently flabbergasted by my trivia abilities, and I went to bed feeling satisfied. 


When she told me that she wanted to be with me forever, I told her I did too. She was my high school sweetheart, and I knew we wouldn’t be. I entertained her fantasy because I loved her and felt like I had no other option. I’m still not sure if she truly believed it. 


There was this bully at my summer camp, Spencer. He was much older than me, popular and good at all the sports we would play. I hated him. One day we were walking from the rec center to the baseball field, and I watched spencer’s sour spray candy bottle fall out of his pocket and onto the grass in front of me. I covertly scooped it up and hid it in my sweatshirt. I went into the bathroom and took the cap off the bottle. It was nearly half empty, so I filled the rest with my spit. I gave it back to Spencer, telling him I just saw him drop it. He thanked me and was pretty nice after that.