Teddy Hayden
Core 80a
Lusztig
11-13-17


“Fear and anger are a threat to justice. They can infect a community, a state, or a nation, and make us blind, irrational, and dangerous.” (Stevenson, 313)


Condemnation


        I grew up in a very safe, calm community called San Quentin Village. It’s a quaint little establishment, left over from the first major round of settlement in Marin County, California in the 1840s. There is one street, Main Street, that wanders away from the freeway, passes some cliffs and a nice little beach before it dead ends. My house is near the end, tucked up against the hillside overlooking the water. Past the end of main street, sprawled across 430 acres of some of the most valuable property in the world, looms San Quentin maximum security prison. This behemoth holds over 4,000 of society’s most dangerous humans, nearly 750 of which are condemned on death row awaiting their execution dates. As a small child, I didn’t really understand what it took to be put inside San Quentin. I thought maybe people who robbed houses and stole cars got locked up, but it wasn’t until the executions that I understood what bad people did. Stanley (Tookie) Williams was executed in 2005, the most recent execution in California. Williams was the founder of the West Side crips, involved in crime his entire life and ultimately convicted of 4 murders. To 7 year old me, 4 murders sounded sufficient to warrant an execution. Tookie sounded like a bad guy, so I was a bit confused when thousands of people piled onto Main Street to protest the sanctioned killing of this evil man. As it turns out, Tookie Williams became an adamant anti-gang activist while in prison. He became a successful author and has apparently influenced many young people to quit their lives of crime. Likely, Williams saved more lives than he ended. Despite the pleas of his supporters, Tookie Williams was executed on December 13, 2005, 4 days after my 7th birthday. 


Juxtapose
While we lived in San Quentin, my mother was a member of the citizens advisory committee. This granted her and her children (just me) 24 hour gate clearance. This was quite convenient, because the normal bike route to my preschool takes a circuitous route around the prison, adding an extra 15 minutes or so to the trip. Naturally, we took the route through the prison twice a day, every day. This landscape followed me through my early childhood, as my most distant memory involves being pushed in a stroller past the electric razor wire fence that lines the yard. As I grew up, I began to explore the grounds and get acquainted with its occupants. The prison is set up in layers, with death row at the center. The vast majority of the grounds is in the outermost layer, where the employees live and the lower security inmates are allowed to do manual labor to mitigate their sentence. I was never a shy kid, so I always talked to the inmates that I passed on my bike. I actually loved talking to inmates because they were always so friendly and talkative. At the time, I didn’t quite understand how novel it was for them to speak to a kid like me. I was never afraid of the inmates because they never did anything even remotely sinister in front of me. For that matter, I saw much more evil at home and at school. If anything, the inmates demonstrated to me how people could transform. I understood that these men did bad things at some point in the past, but now they acted like well-mannered, jubilant children about to be let out for recess. [a]
Fickle 
When the hostile prison guard is introduced in chapter 10, the reader is immediately led to view him as evil and to dislike him. Stevenson prefaces his introduction with a description of a vehicle he saw in the prison’s lot, referencing a particularly provocative bumper sticker that stated: “If i’d known it was going to be like this, I’d have picked my own damn cotton”(192). Before the reader is even introduced to the owner of the vehicle, his identity is tied to racism and bigotry. When Stevenson enters the prison, the guard he encounters immediately antagonizes him by subjecting him to a strip search and treating him with hostility. Throughout the interaction, Stevenson remains composed and resolute. It is evident that Stevenson is purposefully taking the high road and complying, partially because he feels it is his duty to the inmate, Avery Jenkins, whom he has come to visit. The altercation with the guard ends with him revealing to Stevenson that he owns the truck parked outside, what a surprise. Stevenson leaves feeling “angry and irritated at his own powerlessness” (196). If the story with the guard ended here, Stevenson likely would not have included it. It would only serve to confirm the stagnant existence of evil, racist people to the reader. Instead, Stevenson describes how hearing the terrible story of Avery Jenkins served to disillusion this man, eroding his rough facade and exposing the inherently tender, compassionate human being that he is. Stevenson even pinpoints the moment this happens, describing how his “face softened” (201) as he spilled his sob story. The inclusion of this story, as well as how easily this man’s entire complex was eroded by Stevenson’s efforts and Avery’s story, sheds light on the nature of Just Mercy. It is an insight into the nature of good and evil, specifically their dynamic nature, that Stevenson wishes to impose on the reader.[b]


Justice
In chapter 9, aptly titled “I’m Here”, Stevenson includes an anecdote about a woman named Mrs. Williams. Mrs. Williams was elated when she was given the opportunity to sit in on Walter’s litigation as part of his community support. When she enters the courtroom, Stevenson describes watching “all of her composure fall away, replaced by a look of absolute fear”(176) as she sees a police dog. It is revealed that Mrs. Williams had participated in the Montgomery campaign, where she was clearly traumatized by encounters with police and their dogs.[c] When Stevenson describes watching the wind being taken from the sails of Mrs. Williams, it is allegorical to the oppression of blacks as a whole. It is as if the grit and tenacity of an entire race has been partially deflated by the hatred and oppression of another. The following day, Mrs. Williams returns to court. Stevenson dramatically recounts how she methodically surmounts her paralyzing fear and sits down in the courtroom to support Walter. This passage is critical in understanding the meaning of Just Mercy. Like the tumultuous journey of African Americans through the civil rights movement, Mrs. Williams displayed that she was stronger than the white establishment that was actively trying to suppress and oppress her. Her personal drive and sense of duty surpassed the efforts of those who sought discourage her, sending a feeling of victory and accomplishment through the courtroom as well as throughout the remainder of the book. [d]
]
Stigma
Throughout Just Mercy, there is a defining theme of fear and anger for the white community. In some form, fear and anger are responsible for all of the condemnation in this book. The prosecution of Walter McMillian stems from the social abhorrence of interracial fornication. Marsha Colby’s case expressed our country’s fear of poor mothers that cannot adequately take care of our children. After Walter was exonerated, the community even expressed an irrational fear of the punitive system, stating that once people go to prison they automatically become deplorable, regardless of their guilt. These sentiments are manifested in a community that wants nothing to do with the poor, the disparaged, the condemned, or any other socially undesirable faction of society. This ideology is what bolsters the southern prison system and its culture. Clearly this is a systemic problem, but Stevenson fails to provide adequate contrast of a well-functioning system. San Quentin is the most desirable prison in California, with the longest inmate transfer wait list of any prison in the U.S. This is because it has the most substantial inmate rehabilitation infrastructure, complete with college-level instruction in most areas. The underpinnings of these programs is a network of over 2,000 community volunteers, from professors (like my grandmother) who come in to lecture about foreign culture and society, to chefs who teach well behaved inmates how to make Crème fraîche or Duck confit. Each of these volunteers understands the transformative potential of the inmates and how important their involvement is to unlocking this potential. This comes in stark contrast to the prisons from Just Mercy, where some inmates don’t interact with lay people for months or years. As a conclusion, I would like to provide another stark contrast.
Five-year Recidivism rates:
San Quentin (restorative program participants): 7.1%[e][f]
Aggregate American Prison System: 76.6%


[a]As a reader, I am caught between two feelings: great interest in the story you are telling, and increasing curiosity about when the discussion of Stevenson is going to start. (?)
[b]A point well made, but again I don't see a larger unity to these separate statements. The paper is a little "all over the place."
[c]While I like this anecdote, I'm puzzled as to why you transitioned from your childhood discussion of prison to this story, as it involves one of the few sympathetic characters in the narrative who is not herself in prison.
[d]This paper makes a jarring and abrupt transition from the conversation of the previous two papers. I don't see any underlying unity here.
[e]Is that true? Please provide citation to a source.
[f]http://www.mercurynews.com/2016/06/24/san-quentin-inmates-getting-paid-to-code/