Hayden 
Teddy Hayden
Lusztig Core 80a
12-10-17
American Media on Psychedelic Research


The American media has existed in some form for over 250 years. It is something so ingrained in our culture and birth of our nation that many people consider it a pillar of our republic, necessary for our collective liberty and freedom of thought. Because of their might and historical significance, Americans have come to trust the words of these sources as fact, expecting objectivity and unbiased reporting. These marbled behemoths are the media outlets with which I, and most other Americans, are familiar. The role of media in our society, however, is quickly changing. The advent of the internet and the entrance of the information age completely blindsided the media, a cataclysm from which it will never fully recover. New, fierce competition from the likes of Buzzfeed, Vice, Huffington Post and other internet news sources entered the marketplace. The combination of their substantially lower overhead, internet-exclusive platforms, and mounds of data ushered in a new standard for media. Suddenly, media outlets were able to see how consumers really respond to their content. This allowed them to tailor headlines, images, or other aspects of their articles to lure more clicks, hence the term ‘clickbait’. This event has relegated American Media back to being an engine for profit, like it was in the days of Yellow Journalism, and caused it to stray from its objectivity. At this point, the behemoths and the rookies blend together and it is hard to distinguish the content of one from the other because they are all fighting for the same audience. This modern media climate is the subject of this paper, and I have chosen the bias surrounding psychedelic research to be the lense of my analysis. The tendency for news sources to produce clickbait, rather than objective reporting, has caused, in the aggregate, homogenous content and perspectives surrounding psychedelic research, as well as a tendency for media to exaggerate the potential and omit the risks of using these substances.   
Humans, and other animals, have consumed narcotics for recreational, medicinal, and entheogenic purposes for millennia. Hallucinogens, specifically psychedelic hallucinogens, have a special place in the epoch of our species. The earliest confirmed use of psychedelics belongs to the Olmec people of 12,000 B.C.E., whose shamans were buried with Bufo Toads, a source of one of the most powerful entheogenic psychedelics known to man, 5-MeO-DMT[1]. Their geographic successors, the Maya, left numerous stone Mushroom effigies that can be dated to 1000 B.C.E. Across the pond, paleolithic and mesolithic cave paintings have been interpreted as depicting psilocybin mushrooms. Some even believe entheogenic references are ubiquitous in common religious scripture, such as in the Christian Bible and Hindu Vedas.[2] 
If we skip through eons of development, past the division of our continents into states and the enactment of governments to regulate them, we reach our present issue. As our species became increasingly socially conscious, we began to see the adverse effects that some of these drugs had on our fellow humans, specifically on their social participation and productivity. In an effort to abate the plague of addiction and dejection caused by Opium, the U.S. and the Qing Dynasty created an opium embargo in 1880. This action spawned a new ideology on narcotic regulation and the responsibility of a state to do so, an ideology that has been gradually transmuted into the modern War on Drugs. 
Psychedelics, for the most part, flew under the radar of this regulatory trend for a long time. It wasn’t until the synthesization, and accompanying popularization, of LSD in the 1960s and 1970s that the U.S. and other countries scheduled psychedelics. Congress, however, was a bit late to the party. A plethora of research and experimentation, primarily on LSD, occurred before it was made illegal to do so. The Man himself even tried to weaponize these drugs in the infamous Project MKUltra. Between the years of 1945 and 1970, nearly 40,000 research subjects were given psychedelics including psilocybin, LSD, DMT, and mescaline.[3]  
This research was halted abruptly when psychedelics were assigned the Schedule I title. This status is assigned by the DEA to “drugs with no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse.”[4] Because of this, psychedelic research has been in limbo for decades. This paradigm, however, seems to be shifting. Some countries, like Portugal and the Netherlands, have changed this unwavering stance on drugs. Portugal, for example, has decriminalized all narcotics and enacted social programs intended to rehabilitate addicts and reduce the prevalence of addiction. [5] This shift has also opened the door to the continuation of psychedelic research. In the last 10 years, seemingly conclusive studies on the effective treatment of disorders like PTSD, depression, and alcoholism have become prevalent. Even the U.S. FDA has recently approved the use of MDMA in a clinical, psychotherapeutic setting to treat PTSD.[6] 
The homogeneity of the content available to a reader regarding psychedelic research will be the first topic of analysis. In most of the articles surrounding psychedelic research, there is a running narrative. As an article on newscientist.com puts it, “psychedelic therapy showed huge promise in the 1950s, was crushed by the establishment in the late 1960s and is now being revived by a group of fearless visionaries.” Their contemporaries over at The Verge tell a nearly identical tale, but with an added detail: “But with President Donald Trump in office, is the resurrected research movement in danger?”.[7] Over at Popular Science, they at least include some reasoning: "but also there's this huge and growing generation of students and researchers who aren't scared of studying the drugs...looking for treatments to our most debilitating epidemics."[8] All of these sources are attempting to “hype up” the topic, portraying the current social, political, and scientific atmosphere as somehow different than it has been before. This mentality spawns from the concept of “trending”, and how many, especially internet-exclusive, news sources pander to what is trending or popular on social media. These news agencies, however, cannot be blamed for this practice. They are financially incentivised to do so, and frankly it would be unwise to produce unique content that goes unclicked and unread. 
The current state, aside from the availability of information via the internet, is not so different than it has historically been. In 2005, back when internet news was practically still in its infancy, newscientist.com ran a full length story on psychedelic research and the changing tides of the regulatory state.[9] In his 1994 abstract on Psychiatric research with Hallucinogens, Doctor Charles S. Grob states that “after a twenty-five year period of virtual prohibition, formal psychiatric research with hallucinogenic drugs has resumed….We now have before us the opportunity to resurrect the long dormant field of hallucinogen research”.[10] The farther one goes back in the ledger, the less sceptical the perspective seems. Before prohibition, the world was sure LSD would revolutionize our understanding of the human mind. It seems as if experts and lay people alike have felt the fringe of revolution for a long time, but that revolution hasn’t quite taken hold. 
The second, more important, topic of analysis is the portrayal of risk. Yes, psychedelic drugs like LSD and mushrooms are physically safe, effectively impossible to overdose on. And yes, these substances can clearly have amazing benefits if taken under the right circumstances. Despite these potential upsides, however, psychedelics also have serious risks, something hardly even mentioned in the most articles on the topic. Psychedelic drugs have been proven to be a catalyst for the immersion of mental illness in predisposed indulgers, a fact of which most of these articles are seemingly bereft. Another issue surrounding psychedelics, especially synthetic ones, is the legitimacy of the chemical. A large portion of synthetic psychedelics, like LSD, sold on the street are not what dealers purport. Instead, cheap and potentially deadly substances that have some psychedelic effects are sold. To further potentiate this issue, many of the positive portrayals of psychedelics in these articles could easily inspire a reader to experiment with these, and other, drugs. This, coupled with lackluster cautionary efforts, creates a dangerous environment. An example of this comes from an article about a terminally ill man’s use of psychedelics by the New Yorker, who quoted a researcher as saying “individuals transcend their primary identification with their bodies and experience ego-free states . . . and return with a new perspective and profound acceptance.” This is followed by “Patrick had never taken a psychedelic drug, but he immediately wanted to volunteer” which he proceeds to do. This lends credence to just how convincing the diction surrounding psychedelic experiences can be. The New Yorker does partly cover their action by saying that “researchers try to weed out volunteers at high risk”, referring to predisposed risk of mental illness. They do not, however, address the other presented risks. In an article titled Psychedelic Drugs Appear to Make People Less Likely to Commit Crimes, ScienceAlert.com proceeds to explain that theory with psilocybin, as well as restate some benefits of other psychedelics: mitigation of headaches, anxiety, depression, antisocial behavior, etc.[11] This article does not assess or even mention any form of risk. Although informative negligence is the trend, valiant outliers do exist. Vox, in a comprehensive piece on Psychedelic Research, titles an entire section “There are big risks to psychedelic drugs”.[12]This section is beautiful, beginning with “Although hallucinogens are fairly safe for patients who have been prescreened and take them in a supervised clinical setting, they are not without risks.” This context and warning are what the other articles lack. First of all, this simple statement reminds the reader that these substances are being used to treat people who are sick, and reminds the reader that he is (probably) not one of those people. The inclusion of ‘fairly’ in that sentence also serves to affirm that this isn’t an established science and can fail even under optimal conditions. The section proceeds to address the risks I presented, as well as the risks of psychosis-induced injury during a trip and physiological effects in the aftermath of psychedelic use. This article concludes on an optimistic yet responsible note: “And researchers expect that if the drugs eventually make it out of research settings and into the real world, limiting their use to a supervised clinical environment will be crucial to their success.”
It is obvious that psychedelics are more than just recreational drugs, and their potential to change the worlds of psychotherapy and psychiatry is legitimate. It is also obvious that psychedelic drugs are not a topic of normalcy for the public or the press. It is this condition, this enigmatic nature of psychedelics and their varying reception by different factions of society, that makes this an interesting case study in our modern internet media climate. The popularity and disruptive nature of this field has made it a topic of journalistic profitability, creating a plethora of homogenous content and muting debate over it. For the most part, this has manifested into an overrepresentation of potential and underrepresentation of risk, creating a potentially dangerous environment for the reader. Some media outlets have managed to stand by their commitment to comprehensive, factual, objective reporting, while still producing popular, easily-digestible content on this topic. Sadly, it is up to the reader, exposed to an expansive sea of content, to sift through the clickbait and find the journalism, those sources committed to the authoritative image of American Media, as opposed to the sleazy revival of Yellow Journalism that is so ubiquitous today.    




















































Bibliography 
Boseley, Sarah. “Magic Mushroom Chemical Psilocybin Could Be Key to Treating Depression - Studies.” The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 1 Dec. 2016, 


Carroll, Aaron E. “Can Psychedelics Be Therapy? Allow Research to Find Out.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 17 July 2017, 


CIIS_SF. “Psychedelic Research & History.” CIIS


DEA / Drug Scheduling, www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml.


“Entheogenic Drugs and the Archaeological Record.” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 17 Sept. 2017


Ferro, Shaunacy. “Why Doctors Can't Give You LSD (But Maybe They Should).” Popular Science, 16 Apr. 2013


Grob, Charles S. Psychiatric Research with Hallucinogens


Hoffman, Jan. “A Dose of a Hallucinogen From a 'Magic Mushroom,' and Then Lasting Peace.” The New York Times, The New York Times, 1 Dec. 2016, 


Lopez, German. “The Fascinating, Strange Medical Potential of Psychedelic Drugs, Explained in 50+ Studies.” Vox, 27 June 2016


McRae, Mike. “Research Shows Magic Mushrooms Can Offer Real Benefits in Depression Therapy.” ScienceAlert


Osmond, A. Hoffer & H. Criticisms of LSD Therapy and Rebuttal, www.psychedelic-library.org/lsd1.htm.


Plante, Stephie Grob. “The War on Drugs Is Back. Will Psychedelic Drug Research Survive?”The Verge, The Verge, 28 June 2017


Pollan, Michael. “The Trip Treatment.” The New Yorker, The New Yorker, 19 June 2017, 


“Psychedelic Medicine: Mind Bending, Health Giving.” New Scientist, 


“Watch Truth About Drugs Documentary Video & Learn About Substance Addiction. Get The Facts About Painkillers, Marijuana, Cocaine, Meth & Other Illegal Drugs.” Foundation for a Drug-Free World, 


https://psychedelictimes.com/psilocybin-mushrooms/death-and-family-healing-with-psilocybin-a-conversation-with-dennis-mckenna/














________________
[1] “Entheogenic Drugs and the Archaeological Record.” Wikipedia. Bufo Toads and 5-MeO-DMT are still used frequently today. Vice has an interesting documentary on this. 
[2] “And when the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of the wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as the hoar frost on the ground. And when the children of Israel saw it, they said one to another, It is manna: for they wist not what it was. And Moses said unto them, This is the bread which the Lord hath given you to eat.” -
- Exodus 16:14
[3] CIIS_SF
[4] DEA / Drug Scheduling
[5] Since decriminalization in 2001, Portugal has experienced dramatic drops in drug-related deaths, HIV rates, and continued adult drug addiction. The rates of “I tried it once”, however, have increased. The portuguese have seemingly adopted the “everything in moderation” mentality, and it seems to be working quite well.   
[6] This may well be the biggest example of hypocrisy I have ever seen, as MDMA remains a schedule I drug in the U.S. 
[7] Plante, Stephie 
[8] Ferro, Shaunacy
[9] NewScientist
[10] Grob, Charles
[11]McRae, ScienceAlert
[12] Lopez, VOX