Synthesis


The modern Human Being likely perceives themselves as being on the cusp of a technological revolution, but in fact Humanity’s synthesis with its creations has been in progress for millenia. The first precocious primeape to grind the edge of their stick on a coarse stone in order to make it more useful likely thought of themself as quite clever, but they couldn’t possibly understand the significance of the ball they dislodged, sending it rolling inexorably through time. Through the eons, this ball has been made exponentially more complex, seamlessly integrating itself with an incredibly receptive collection of creatures with increasingly bold and elusive aspirations. This is the story of the end of its trajectory, a sort of technological eschatology, if you will.


It’s a gorgeous May morning in Southern California. An iridescent shimmer glints off dewey grass blades along the side of Highway 125. Nascent California Poppies glitter the undulating landscape, an expression of nature’s yearning to dance before the arid summer. The air is full of the tweedle of delicate birds and the aroma of earth, with a tinge of petroleum exhaust. Ground squirrels cackle and play among the hills pocked with their homes, orbiting each other aimlessly as the sun stretches itself into the sky. The pavement begins to heat, distorting the perception of the squirrels as they traverse its fringe. A pair dart across, one chasing the other to the green acres on the other side. Two successive thumps abruptly end the ballet, their skeletons are instantly compressed and pulverized underneath the subtly deformed casings of the left-hand tires of a Tesla Model S P100D. It disappears with the wind, leaving only the oblong impressions of their blood and guts splattered onto the pavement, like some sort of grotesque Pollock left to crisp in the Southern California sun. 
“Double Kill!” scoffs Matt wryly to himself as a sneer creeps across his face. He wonders if his dope new whip makes it harder for the animals to hear him coming. He hopes so. He kicks the T into autopilot, putting his feet up on the dash and dragging intently off his black Suorin Edge. “Should be only 30 minutes or so left to TJ” he thinks as he notes the Agricultural Importation checkpoint on the opposite side of the Highway. He checks the glovebox to make sure his passport is on top. It is. He had originally planned to have the procedure done in Hong Kong, but because of the travel bans from the Wuhan ordeal, he had to settle for Tijuana. The doctor in Hong Kong has done upwards of 300 implantations with few adverse reactions, but the Tijuana center has only 73 under its belt. He figures it’s probably fine, and plus he saves enough money on the ticket to get that fresh Supreme jacket he saw the other week. Matt continues along the 125, hurtling himself at 90 towards the Mexican Border as he occupies his mind with a Jordan Peterson podcast on the illegitimacy of modern feminism. 
Matt is an engineer at Gramster, a composite social media enterprise in Mountain View that specializes in ripping off and amalgamating many of the popular App platforms of the day, mining consumer data, and selling it in bulk to the highest bidder. Specifically, Matt is a Data Scientist, working on optimizing and adapting proprietary neural networks in order to glean more information from Gramster’s user base. Ironically enough, his claim to fame is a modified Terms and Conditions document that granted Gramster access to its users’ microphones at all times. Matt is constantly looking for an edge. He’s tried everything, from microdosing LSD to mindfulness yoga before work. He’s caught glimpses of success, but nothing has fared as permanent or maintenance-free as he would like. The next logical step for Matt is cybernetic augmentation, of course. 
As a wealthy white male, he hardly even slows his Tesla down at the border. The Merzenich Neurogenesis Center is only another 20 minutes, and that space is effortlessly filled with Peterson’s precise disassembly of the modern female prerogative. Matt pulls into the contemporary industrial complex in which the Merzenich Center rests, the Tesla’s motors whirring like the unspooling of a fishing reel. His gaze is diverted to the outline of a young woman’s ass sticking with sweat to the back of her cheap black polyester skirt. He ambiently wonders what the brewpub scene is like here, and if he can potentially get some Mexican pussy this evening. He thinks that would be hilarious, especially when he gets home and tells his boys about it. He then figures he’ll probably contract a disease, but ultimately resolves to “just fucking send it”, as condoms feel like trash. 
For his entire life, Matt has been tormented by the 90th percentile. By anyone’s standards he’s a good looking guy, 6 feet tall with mediterrainnean features and a medium build. Despite this, he can’t help but envy men with that crisp jawline he’s always imagined himself with. His subconscious is constantly swirling with his nagging imperfections, dulling what could be a truly amazing human being. Matt is clever, but not a genius. He has just enough mental ability to be competitive with the ferocity of modern industry, but to Matt it always feels like a mad dash, like he’s trying to outrun a freight train. He’s athletic, but no Bolt. Finally Matt has figured out how to free himself from his genetic bondage, how to transmute his mere competence into true confidence. 
He’s ushered into the Center by the whoosh of the automatic doors and greeted by the bright, attractive, freckled face of the receptionist. She welcomes him and introduces herself as Karin. Matt’s game kicks in and he quickly learns that she’s 31 and from San Diego. Karin is used to this, and she expertly defuses his brash attacks. Her bright blue eyes captivate him and he hardly listens to her disclaimers as she hands him a stack of papers. She instructs him to sit in the chairs on the other side of the lobby as he fills out the paperwork and he obeys instinctively. He churns through the information quickly and releases their liability mechanically, snagging glances at Karins tits multiple times per page. On the sixth glance he is caught for the second time and Karin moves herself out of his view. He completes the stack and rings a bell on the counter. “Finished?” Karin asks enthusiastically before opening a set of white doors and directing him out of her life for good. 
Matt is introduced to a short bald man on the verge of being too old for his comfort, the face aboard his smooth liver-spotted skull lighting up at the sight of him. “Hello, you must be Matt! I am Doctor Bailey, I will be in charge of your procedure. How was your trip down?”. Matt responds as expected and adds that he is a bit tired, asking if there is anywhere that sells Yerba Mate around here. “Well, good to hear you’re not nervous!” responds Dr. Bailey cheerfully “Actually, we recommend that our patients avoid caffeine or any other psychotropic substances for at least 24 hours after the procedure. It is essential during that time frame that the synthetic neural mapping network has a consistent medium to navigate.” Bailey adds with an air of sternness that catches Matt off guard. Matt momentarily stops imagining what he would do to naked Karin to ponder this, but concludes that Bailey has no idea that Matt is a fucking tank when it comes to drugs, and quickly resumes. Matt passively listens as Bailey describes how “we use a different approach regarding cerebral implants than our competitors”. Something about how “most providers take a bottom-up approach, implanting the nexus of the system near the cerebellum at the base of the brain and wait for the tendrils to navigate upwards through the cerebral hierarchy”. Bailey adds that “this approach can take months or longer to reach peak performance, and that’s why our approach is the converse. We implant the nexus directly into the Parietal Lobe, bypassing most of the hierarchy and permeating the prefrontal cortex, the region of the brain associated with most cognitive tasks, within days or weeks”. “Efficient, I like it” thinks Matt during a brief interlude from his mental threesome with Karin and his friend James’ mom Cathy.
Bailey escorts Matt down the hall and into a different room, a much more sterile and intimidating room with two machines in it: One reminds him of a salon hair dryer from the Jetsons, its imposing white dome lined with coils and probes that make his skin crawl. The other is the familiar matte-white donut and tray of an FMRI machine. As Matt lies down on the tray, Dr. Bailey briefs him on the procedure. “The actual implantation is practically painless and takes only around 3 seconds,” he assures “but patients usually experience some psychological discomfort for the next 5 to 10 minutes as the system calibrates to your brain. That process should be soothed by the data we get from this FMRI.” he adds in a mildly uplifting tone. Matt is unphased and confident that his high pain tolerance will make short work of the “discomfort”. “There are 2 main phenomena that patients experience during calibration” continues Bailey. “The first is called pareidolia.” The word hits a note within Matt and he becomes suddenly more present. “Pareidolia. Pareidolia..” Matt rolls the word around his mind, eventually uncovering something. Pareidolia is the principle responsible for the nightmarish imagery produced by Google’s Deep Dream network, landscapes augmented with a program to “over recognize” dogs or eyes or whatever object the network is trained to look for. “Interesting..” mulls Matt. “The other phenomenon can only be described as a sort of cognitive consonance” continues Bailey, chuckling at his pun to himself. Matt is still hung up on the first point and hardly even hears Bailey. “Are you ready?” he asks, snapping Matt out of his thoughts. 
Matt sits down underneath the dome and feels it whirring around his brain. “Okay! Let’s do this.” jabs Bailey emphatically “Ready for a poke?”. Matt nods and then feels a small point being compressed slowly on the top of his skull. It intensifies to the threshold of pain and then ends with a subtle vacant sensation. “All done” says Bailey with a smile. Matt’s world remains normal and he is relieved. He turns to Bailey and, as his head swings 30 degrees to meet his face, his reality is transformed. Rapidly popping out of Bailey’s face are an increasing amount of perky nipples. His chin fluidly becomes a full breast, and then the topography of his features begins to morph into a whole mountain range of tits, the exact same tits that he had spent 10 minutes meticulously constructing with his mind just a little earlier. Karin’s tits. To Bailey, Matt looks suddenly concerned and he reaches out to touch him. Matt watches a tower of tits grow and stretch out of the mangled form in front of him, self-replicating and stacking their way directly at him as they branch apart into the vague shape of Baily’s outstretched hand. Matt jumps back, knocking over the chrome-boob machinery and stumbling toward the slightly more comforting consistency of the wall. Into his mind jumps the phrase “tormented by tantalizing technological tit tessellations”, and it begins to repeat itself ad nauseum...
Eventually Matt, who has been curled into the fetal position, begins to recognize his environment, the breasts slowly melting back into the comforting sterility of the Merzenich Neurogenesis Center.
 Matt’s Tesla starts up without a sound, the electric power coming to life under his legs. He drives out of the parking lot relatively unchanged, aside from a deficit of $90,000 and a small microchip near the top of his brain, commanding its army of dendritic nanotubes to traverse his frontal lobe and map over 1,000 neurons a second. After his ordeal, he resolves to pass on the “mexican tang” and begins to drive through Tijuana towards northbound I-5. “Maybe I’ll hit up my boys in Isla Vista and stop there tonight for some drinking” he thinks to himself as  his Tesla goes 0-60 in 3 seconds and he looks for a podcast on Spotify. 
 As the pavement slides underneath the sleek body of the wraith, the butterflies begin to circle within Matt. As the shock wears off, Matt’s memory of the event seems to untangle and crystallize into something quite troubling. The circling cloud builds into a storm that engulfs him, subjecting him to the mercy of his anxiety. Matt decides to assert his dominance, and dumps a chalky white Xanax bar into his mouth followed by a sip of the $7 Yerba Mate he found at the Tijuana Health Foods Store. The hunk slides down his throat, leaving the familiar coppery residue that induces, purely by association, relaxation in Matt. Suddenly, the phrase: “Chemical Slaves, or Slave Masters?” pops into Matt’s head, seemingly from an external source. It resonates repetitiously for a period, but soon dissolves back into the swarm from which it came, in a place just out of reach. This mild cognitive irregularity was the first shadow of change in Matt. 
With his Tesla’s autopilot obediently ferrying him to Isla Vista, Matt retreats to his mind, pondering as he gazes at the blurred landscape passing across the passenger window. More accurately, Matt is in his parents’ living room, the modern stark walls and expansive space bringing back the feeling of suffocation by wealth that he had forgotten about since he last visited home over Christmas. “Stephany?” his mother’s name rolled off his father’s smug lips, with the familiar languid edge they take on after savoring  enough expensive wine. His mother walks over with a stern look. She lays her thumbs on the muscles atop his shoulders, kneading his tender contours as she tells him once again “Your playing is much too cerebral, honey”. Matt feels a twinge somewhere deep inside, a feeling familiar yet distant, entombed and inaccessible. His mother’s hands slide down to meet his atop the ivory keys, at which point the boundaries of her form begin to blur in the same manner as a cathode TV with spotty reception. The Xanax. He had nearly forgotten, as he was so entranced by this foray into his mind, replete with a sense of clarity and detail unfamiliar to Matt. He scans the physical world and notes the consistencies with his other Xanax experiences, but one specific detail nags at his assessment: a low ringing hanging in the pleather-lined aluminum cavity, resonating and mixing through each surface and boundary of his visual field. The fritz intensifies, blurring Matt horizontally, compressing his entire world into a set of iridescent horizontal bands, conceptually alien but somehow warm and comforting, the spectral constituents drawing Matt directly into the Void. 
Matt awakes to the taste of Chartreuse, potentially the most obscure thing he could try to describe. Sort of like the most vulgar mucus one could possibly produce, or the wet musk of an old tennis ball, but more of a hybridization of all possible Chartreuse things, most of them being disgusting. He shifts his weight and his head slams against the back of the bathtub with a hollow thud. His nerves feel disconnected, replaced with an electric tingling racing across his skin. His eyes begin to adjust their way out of paralysis. “What the actual fuck?” Matt says in vacuous astonishment as his hands reluctantly descend to inspect a fresh scar that spans at least 6 inches across his abdomen. Its stimulation sends charged pulses dancing across his surface, feeding back on eachother and spinning their way into dissolution. Matt feels his brain beginning to function again, like the afternoon following a night of heavy drinking. As he scans the squalid bathroom, his brain begins to associate again, overlaying nonsense with language and boundary. Peso coins, with their composite layers glinting silver and gold, litter the floor. Matt’s head throbs and swoons as he gets to his feet, the shift of position blurring his delayed perception and smearing the linoleum floor into a mess of stacked lines. 
Barefoot and shirtless, with his legs covered in baggy pants he doesn’t recognize, Matt walks over to the mirror. His face is familiar enough, besides a darker complexion, a thick, stout, dark beard, and a thin scar encircling part of his left eye. He tries to authenticate his identity through eye contact with the image, but is met by an insurmountable wall of uncertainty. He scans the rooms for an outfit, finds and assembles something suitable, and goes out into a desolate hallway that smells thickly of cigarettes and poverty. He feels the hum of the lights that are encased in opaque rectangular sheathes up and down the hallway, a certain region of his chest excited like the surface of water in heavy rain. He sights down the hallway and suddenly relates this experience most to playing a video game, it shares the depersonalized apathy of controlling a simulation. It was in that split second, that momentary shimmer, that Matt learned that he truly was God, but the epiphany waned as he journeyed through the shoddy connectome towards the anonymous exterior.         
Shirtless and clairvoyant, Matt’s pupils dilate as he thrusts himself into the light, like a newborn babe into an unforgiving world. He smells his own feet sizzling on the scorched pavement as he crosses the desolate street. A quick survey shows no signs of life, no movement aside from the light bouncing off the dust-streaked windows of the vacant homes and businesses. Matt places himself in the middle of the street, poised like a monk striving for enlightenment, with his arms outstretched and his neck back, fully open to the universe. A rumbling begins to permeate the pavement, reverberating the motions of a mechanical beast whose sole ambition is Matt. Matt turns to his left, timed perfectly to greet a massive military tank, with the color of sand and demeanor of a fervent warthog. Matt makes eye contact with the beast, briefly exchanging sentiments and then raising himself onto his feet. 
“I am no longer welcome, I understand” asserts Matt matter-of-factly towards the beast. He pivots on his nimble toes, and takes off running toward a distant treeline. Matt reaches a barb-wire fence, onto which he thrusts his remaining clothes and uses the covered region to vault over. He sprints through the field, disregarding thorns and rocks as he careens to freedom. Matt reaches the treeline shortly, leaving his final remaining inhibitions in the field below. He crosses the threshold from the dry, desolate world into the cradle of life that is the Yucatan. His linguistic brain is unraveled, purged, and reconstructed into an unrestricted network, receptive to the infinite wisdom of its surroundings. He travels quickly and instinctively, drawn towards something deeper in the forest. His bloody feet continue to carry him across the jungle floor. He bursts through a veil of ferns, breathing deeply and intently, and enters the most beautiful cavern one could imagine, a sacred Cenote. It’s deep blue water sings to Matt, and the vines encircling the pool seem to breathe and play with each other. Without a shred of thought, Matt thrusts himself off a ledge, extending his shape into a blade ready to cut into the glassy water. He pierces the film, sucked into the frigid depths of the earth. He swims down further and further, into the inky depths, towards Home.