BETWEEN TIMID AND TIMBUKTU 
"I guess somebody up there likes me." 
— MALACHI CONSTANT 
Everyone now knows how to find the meaning of life within himself. 
But mankind wasn't always so lucky. Less than a century ago men and women did not have 
easy access to the puzzle boxes within them. They could not name even one of the fifty-three portals to the soul. 
Gimcrack religions were big business. Mankind, ignorant of the truths that lie within every 
human being, looked outward — pushed ever outward. What mankind hoped to learn in its 
outward push was who was actually in charge of all creation, and what all creation was all about. 
Mankind flung its advance agents ever outward, ever outward. Eventually it flung them out 
into space, into the colorless, tasteless, weightless sea of outwardness without end. 
It flung them like stones. 
These unhappy agents found what had already been found in abundance on Earth —a 
nightmare of meaninglessness without end. The bounties of space, of infinite outwardness, were 
three: empty heroics, low comedy, and pointless death. Outwardness lost, at last, its imagined attractions. Only inwardness remained to be explored. Only the human soul remained terra incognita. 
This was the beginning of goodness and wisdom. What were people like in olden times, with their souls as yet unexplored? 
The following is a true story from the Nightmare Ages, falling roughly, give or take a few 
years, between the Second World War and the Third Great Depression. There was a crowd. 
The crowd had gathered because there was to be a materialization. A man and his dog were 
going to materialize, were going to appear out of thin air — wispily at first, becoming, finally, as 
substantial as any man and dog alive. 
The crowd wasn't going to get to see the materialization. The materialization was strictly a 
private affair on private property, and the crowd was emphatically not invited to feast its eyes. 
The materialization was going to take place, like a modern, civilized hanging, within high, 
blank, guarded walls. And the crowd outside the walls was very much like a crowd outside the 
walls at a hanging. 
The crowd knew it wasn't going to see anything, yet its members found pleasure in being near, 
in staring at the blank walls and imagining what was happening inside. The mysteries of the 
materialization, like the mysteries of a hanging, were enhanced by the wall; were made 
pornographic by the magic lantern slides of morbid imaginations — magic lantern slides 
projected by the crowd on the blank stone walls. 
The town was Newport, Rhode Island, U.S.A., Earth, Solar System, Milky Way. The walls 
were those of the Rumfoord estate. 
Ten minutes before the materialization was to take place, agents of the police spread the rumor 
that the materialization had happened prematurely, had happened outside the walls, and that the 
man and his dog could be seen plain as day two blocks away. The crowd galloped away to see 
the miracle at the intersection. The crowd was crazy about miracles. 
At the tail end of the crowd was a woman who weighed three hundred pounds. She had a 
goiter, a caramel apple, and a gray little six-year-old girl. She had the little girl by the hand and 
was jerking her this way and that, like a ball on the end of a rubber band. "Wanda June," she 
said, "if you don't start acting right, I'm never going to take you to a materialization again." 
The materializations had been happening for nine years, once every fifty-nine days. The most 
learned and trustworthy men in the world had begged heartbrokenly for the privilege of seeing a 
materialization. No matter how the great men worded their requests, they were turned down cold. 
The refusal was always the same, handwritten by Mrs. Rumfoord's social secretary. 
Mrs. Winston Niles Rumfoord asks me to inform you that she is unable to extend the invitation 
you request. She is sure you will understand her feeling in the matter: that the phenomenon you 
wish to observe is a tragic family affair, hardly a fit subject for the scrutiny of outsiders, no 
matter how nobly motivated their curiosities. Mrs. Rumfoord and her staff answered none of the tens of thousands of 
questions that were 
put to them about the materializations. Mrs. Rumfoord felt that she owed the world very little 
indeed in the way of information. She discharged that incalculably small obligation by issuing a 
report twenty-four hours after each materialization. Her report never exceeded one hundred 
words. It was posted by her butler in a glass case bolted to the wall next to the one entrance to 
the estate. 
The one entrance to the estate was an Alice-in-Wonderland door in the west wall. The door 
was only four-and-a-half feet high. It was made of iron and held shut by a great Yale lock. 
The wide gates of the estate were bricked in. 
The reports that appeared in the glass case by the iron door were uniformly bleak and peevish. 
They contained information that only served to sadden any. one with a shred of curiosity. They 
told the exact time at which Mrs. Rumfoord's husband Winston and his dog Kazak materialized, 
and the exact time at which they dematerialized. The states of health of the man and his dog were 
invariably appraised as good. The reports implied that Mrs. Rumfoord's husband could see the 
past and the future clearly, but they neglected to give examples of sights in either direction. 
Now the crowd had been decoyed away from the estate to permit the untroubled arrival of a 
rented limousine at the small iron door in the west wall. A slender man in the clothes of an 
Edwardian dandy got out of the limousine and showed a paper to the policeman guarding the 
door. He was disguised by dark glasses and a false beard. The policeman nodded, and the man unlocked the door himself with a key from 
his pocket. He 
ducked inside, and slammed the door behind himself with a clang. 
The limousine drew away. 
Beware of the dog! said a sign over the small iron door. The fires of the summer sunset 
flickered among the razors and needles of broken glass set in concrete on the top of the wall. 
The man who had let himself in was the first person ever invited by Mrs. Rumfoord to a 
materialization. He was not a great scientist. He was not even well educated. He had been thrown 
out of the University of Virginia in the middle of his freshman year. He was Malachi Constant of 
Hollywood, California, the richest American — and a notorious rakehell. 
Beware of the dog! the sign outside the small iron door had said. But inside the wall there was 
only a dog's skeleton. It wore a cruelly spiked collar that was chained to the wall. It was the 
skeleton of a very large dog — a mastiff. Its long teeth meshed. Its skull and jaws formed a 
cunningly articulated, harmless working model of a flesh-ripping machine. The jaws closed so 
— clack. Here had been the bright eyes, there the keen ears, there the suspicious nostrils, there 
the carnivore's brain. Ropes of muscle had hooked here and here, had brought the teeth together 
in flesh so — clack. 
The skeleton was symbolic — a prop, a conversation piece installed by a woman who spoke to 
almost no one. No dog had died at its post there by the wall. Mrs. Rumfoord had bought the 
bones from a veterinarian, had had them bleached and varnished and wired together. The 
skeleton was one of Mrs. Rumfoord's many bitter and obscure comments on the nasty tricks time 
and her husband had played on her. 
Mrs. Winston Niles Rumfoord had seventeen million dollars. Mrs. Winston Niles Rumfoord 
had the highest social position attainable in the United States of America. Mrs. Winston Niles 
Rumfoord was healthy and handsome, and talented, too. 
Her talent was as a poetess. She had published anonymously a slim volume of poems called 
Between Timid and Timbuktu. It had been reasonably well received. The title derived from the fact that all the words between timid and Timbuktu in 
very small dictionaries relate to time. 
But, well-endowed as Mrs. Rumfoord was, she still did troubled things like chaining a dog's 
skeleton to the wall, like having the gates of the estate bricked up, like letting the famous formal 
gardens turn into New England jungle. 
The moral: Money, position, health, handsomeness, and talent aren't everything. 
Malachi Constant, the richest American, locked the Alice-in-Wonderland door behind him. He 
hung his dark glasses and false beard on the ivy of the wall. He passed the dog's skeleton briskly, 
looking at his solar-powered watch as he did so. In seven minutes, a live mastiff named Kazak 
would materialize and roam the grounds. 
"Kazak bites," Mrs. Rumfoord had said in her invitation, "so please be punctual." 
Constant smiled at that — the warning to be punctual. To be punctual meant to exist as a 
point, meant that as well as to arrive somewhere on time. Constant existed as a point — could 
not imagine what it would, be like to exist in any other way. 
That was one of the things he was going to find out — what it was like to exist in any other 
way. Mrs. Rumford's husband existed in another way. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord had run his private space ship right into the heart of an uncharted 
chrono-synclastic infundibulum two days out of Mars. Only his dog had been along. Now 
Winston Niles Rumfoord and his dog Kazak existed as wave phenomena — apparently pulsing 
in a distorted spiral with its origin in the Sun and its terminal in Betelgeuse. The earth was about to intercept that spiral. 
Almost any brief explanation of chrono-synclastic infundibula is certain to be offensive to 
specialists in the field. Be that as it may, the best brief explanation is probably that of Dr. Cyril 
Hall, which appears in the fourteenth edition of A Child's Cyclopedia of Wonders and Things to 
Do. The article is here reproduced in full, with gradous permission from the publishers: 
CHRONO-SYNCLASTIC INFUNDIBULA — Just imagine that your Daddy is the smartest man 
who ever lived on Earth, and he knows everything there is to find out, and he is exactly right 
about everything, and he can prove he is right about everything. Now imagine another little child 
on some nice world a million light years away, and that little child's Daddy is the smartest man 
who ever lived on that nice world so far away. And he is just as smart and just as right as your 
Daddy is. Both Daddies are smart, and both Daddies are right. 
Only if they ever met each other they would get into a terrible argument, because they 
wouldn't agree on anything. Now, you can say that your Daddy is right and the other little child's 
Daddy is wrong, but the Universe is an awfully big place. There is room enough for an awful lot 
of people to be right about things and still not agree. 
The reason both Daddies can be right and still get into terrible fights is because there are so 
many different ways of being right. There are places in the Universe, though, where each Daddy 
could finally catch on to what the other Daddy was talking about. These places are where all the 
different kinds of truths fit together as nicely as the parts in your Daddy's solar watch. We call 
these places chrono-synclastic infundibula. 
The Solar System seems to be full of chrono-synclastic infundibula. There is one great big one 
we are sure of that likes to stay between Earth and Mars. We know about that one because an 
Earth man and his Earth dog ran right into it. 
You might think it would be nice to go to a chrono-synclastic infundibulum and see all the 
different ways to be absolutely right, but it is a very dangerous thing to do. The poor man and his 
poor dog are scattered far and wide, not just through space, but through time, too. 
Chrono (kroh-no) means time. Synclastic (sin-class-tick) means curved toward the same side 
in all directions, like the skin of an orange. Infundibulum (in-fun-dib-u-lum) is what the ancient 
Romans like Julius Caesar and Nero called a funnel. If you don't know what a funnel is, get 
Mommy to show you one. 
The key to the Alice-in-Wonderland door had come with the invitation. Malachi Constant 
slipped the key into his fur-lined trouser pocket and followed the one path that opened before 
him. He walked in deep shadow, but the flat rays of the sunset filled the treetops with a Maxfield 
Parrish light. 
Constant made small motions with his invitation as he proceeded, expecting to be challenged 
at every turn. The invitation's ink was violet. Mrs. Rumfoord was only thirty- four, but she wrote 
like an old woman — in a kinky, barbed hand. She plainly detested Constant, whom she had 
never met. The spirit of the invitation was reluctant, to say the least, as though written on a soiled 
handkerchief. 
"During my husband's last materialization," she had said in the invitation, "he insisted that you 
be present for the next. I was unable to dissuade him from this, despite the many obvious 
drawbacks. He insists that he knows you well, having met you on Titan, which, I am given to 
understand, is a moon of the planet Saturn." 
There was hardly a sentence in the invitation that did not contain the verb insist. Mrs. 
Rumfoord's husband had insisted on her doing something very much against her own judgment, 
and she in turn was insisting that Malachi Constant behave, as best he could, like the gentleman 
he was not. 
Malachi Constant had never been to Titan. He had never, so far as he knew, been outside the 
gaseous envelope of his native planet, the Earth. Apparently he was about to learn otherwise. 
The turns in the path were many, and the visibility was short. Constant was following a damp 
green path the width of a lawn mower — what was in fact the swath of a lawn mower. Rising on 
both sides of the path were the green walls of the jungle the gardens had become. 
The mower's swath skirted a dry fountain. The man who ran the mower had become creative 
at this point, had made the path fork. Constant could choose the side of the fountain on which he 
preferred to pass. Constant stopped at the fork, looked up. The fountain itself was marvelously 
creative. It was a cone described by many stone bowls of decreasing diameters. The bowls were 
collars on a cylindrical shaft forty feet high. 
Impulsively, Constant chose neither one fork nor the other, but climbed the fountain itself. He 
climbed from bowl to bowl, intending when he got to the top to see whence he 
had come and whither he was bound. 
Standing now in the topmost, in the smallest of the baroque fountain's bowls, standing with his 
feet in the ruins of birds' nests, Malachi Constant looked out over the estate, and over a large part 
of Newport and Narragansett Bay. He held up his watch to sunlight, letting it drink in the 
wherewithal that was to solar watches what money was to Earth men. 
The freshening sea breeze ruffled Constant's blue-black hair. He was a well- made man — a 
light heavyweight, dark-skinned, with poet's lips, with soft brown eyes in the shaded caves of a 
Cro-Magnon brow-ridge. He was thirty-one. 
He was worth three billion dollars, much of it inherited. 
His name meant faithful messenger. 
He was a speculator, mostly in corporate securities. 
In the depressions that always followed his taking of alcohol, narcotics, and women, Constant 
pined for just one thing — a single message that was sufficiently dignified and important to merit 
his carrying it humbly between two points. The motto under the coat of arms that Constant had designed for himself said 
simply, The Messenger Awaits. 
What Constant had in mind, presumably, was a first. class message from God to someone 
equally distinguished. 
Constant looked at his solar watch again. He had two minutes in which to climb down and 
reach the house — two minutes before Kazak would materialize and look for strangers to bite. 
Constant laughed to himself, thinking how delighted Mrs. Rumfoord would be were the vulgar, 
parvenu Mr. Constant of Hollywood to spend his entire visit treed on the fountain by a 
thoroughbred dog. Mrs. Rumfoord might even have the fountain turned on. 
It was possible that she was watching Constant. The mansion was a minute's walk from the 
fountain — set off from the jungle by a mowed swath three times the width of the path. 
The Rumfoord mansion was marble, an extended reproduction of the banqueting hall of 
Whitehall Palace in London. The mansion, like most of the really grand ones in Newport, was a 
collateral relative of post offices and Federal court buildings throughout the land. 
The Rumfoord mansion was an hilariously impressive expression of the concept: People of 
substance. It was surely one of the greatest essays on density since the Great Pyramid of Khufu. 
In a way it was a better essay on permanence than the Great Pyramid, since the 
Great Pyramid 
tapered to nothingness as it approached heaven. Nothing about the Rumfoord mansion 
diminished as it approached heaven. Turned upside down, it would have looked exactly the 
same. 
The density and permanence of the mansion were, of course, at ironic variance with the fact 
that the quondam master of the house, except for one hour in every fifty-nine days, was no more 
substantial than a moonbeam. 
Constant climbed down from the fountain, stepping onto the rims of bowls of ever-increasing 
sizes. When he got to the bottom, he was filled with a strong wish to see the fountain go. He 
thought of the crowd outside, thought of how they, too, would enjoy seeing the fountain go. They 
would be enthralled — watching the teeny-weeny bowl at the tippy-tippy top brimming over into 
the next little bowl . . . and the next little bowl's brimming over into the next little bowl . . . and 
the next little bowl's brimming over into the next bowl . . . and on and on and on, a rhapsody of 
brimming, each bowl singing its own merry water song. And yawning under all those bowls was 
the upturned mouth of the biggest bowl of them all . . . a regular Beelzebub of a 
bowl, bone dry and insatiable . . . waiting, waiting, waiting for that first sweet drop. 
Constant was rapt, imagining that the fountain was running. The fountain was very much like 
an hallucination — and hallucinations, usually drug-induced, were almost all that could surprise 
and entertain Constant any more. Time passed quickly. Constant did not move. 
Somewhere on the estate a mastiff bayed. The baying sounded like the blows of a maul on a 
great bronze gong. 
Constant awoke from his contemplation of the fountain. The baying could only be that of 
Kazak, the hound of space. Kazak had materialized. Kazak smelled the blood of a parvenu. 
Constant sprinted the remainder of the distance to the house. 
An ancient butler in knee breeches opened the door for Malachi Constant of Hollywood. The 
butler was weeping for joy. He was pointing into a room that Constant could not see. The butler 
was trying to describe the thing that made him so happy and full of tears. He could not speak. 
His jaw was palsied, and all he could say to Constant was, "Putt putt — putt putt putt." 
The floor of the foyer was a mosaic, showing the signs of the zodiac encircling a golden sun. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord, who had materialized only a minute before, came into the foyer and 
stood on the sun. He was much taller and heavier than Malachi Constant — and he was the first 
person who had ever made Constant think that there might actually be a person superior to 
himself. Winston Niles Rumfoord extended his soft hand, greeted Constant familiarly, almost 
singing his greeting in a glottal Groton tenor. 
"Delighted, delighted, delighted, Mr. Constant," said Rumfoord. "How nice of you to 
commmmmmmmme." 
"My pleasure," said Constant. 
"They tell me you are possibly the luckiest man who ever lived." 
"That might be putting it a little too strong," said Constant. 
"You won't deny you've had fantastically good luck financially," said Rumfoord. 
Constant shook his head. "No. That would be hard to deny," he said. 
"And to what do you attribute this wonderful luck of yours?" said Rumfoord. 
Constant shrugged. "Who knows?" he said. "I guess somebody up there likes me," he said. 
Rumfoord looked up at the ceiling. "What a charming concept — someone's liking you up 
there." 
Constant, who had been shaking hands with Rumfoord during the conversation, thought of his 
own hand, suddenly, as small and clawlike. 
Rumfoord's palm was callused, but not horny like the palm of a man doomed to a single trade 
for all of his days. The calluses were perfectly even, made by the thousand happy labors of an 
active leisure class. 
For a moment, Constant forgot that the man whose hand he shook was simply one aspect, one 
node of a wave phenomenon extending all the way from the Sun to Betelguese. The handshake 
reminded Constant what it was that he was touching — for his hand tingled with a small but 
unmistakable electrical flow. 
Constant had not been bullied into feeling inferior by the tone of Mrs. Rumfoord's invitation to 
the materialization. Constant was a male and Mrs. Rumfoord was a female, and Constant 
imagined that he had the means of demonstrating, if given the opportunity, his unquestionable 
superiority. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord was something else again — morally, spatially, socially, sexually, 
and electrically. Winston Niles Rumfoord's smile and handshake dis. mantled Constant's high 
opinion of himself as efficiently as carnival roustabouts might dismantle a Ferris wheel. 
Constant, who had offered his services to God as a messenger, now panicked before the very 
moderate greatness of Rumfoord. Constant ransacked his memory for past proofs of his own 
greatness. He ransacked his memory like a thief going through another man's billfold. Constant 
found his memory stuffed with rumpled, overexposed snapshots of all the women he had had, 
with preposterous credentials testifying to his ownership of even more preposterous enterprises, 
with testimonials that attributed to him virtues and strengths that only three billion dollars could 
have. There was even a silver medal with a red ribbon — awarded to Constant for placing second 
in the hop, skip, and jump in an intramural track meet at the University of Virginia. 
Rumfoord's smile went on and on. 
To follow the analogy of the thief who is going through another man's billfold: Constant 
ripped open the seams of his memory, hoping to find a secret compartment with something of 
value in it. There was no secret compartment — nothing of value. All that remained to Constant 
were the husks of his memory — unstitched, flaccid flaps. 
The ancient butler looked adoringly at Rumfoord, went through the cringing contortions of an 
ugly old woman posing for a painting of the Madonna. "The mah-stuh — " he bleated. "The 
young mah-stuh." 
"I can read your mind, you know," said Rumfoord. 
"Can you?" said Constant humbly. 
"Easiest thing in the world," said Rumford. His eyes twinkled. "You're not a bad sort, you 
know — " he said, "particularly when you forget who you are." He touched Constant lightly on 
the arm. It was a politician's gesture — a vulgar public gesture by a man who in private, among 
his own kind, would take wincing pains never to touch anyone. 
"If it's really so important to you, at this stage of our relationship, to feel superior to me in 
some way," he said to Constant pleasantly, "think of this: You can reproduce and I cannot." 
He now turned his broad back to Constant, led the way through a series of very grand 
chambers. 
He paused in one, insisted that Constant admire a huge oil painting of a little girl holding the 
reins of a pure white pony. The little girl wore a white bonnet, a white, starched dress, white 
gloves, white socks, and white shoes. 
She was the cleanest, most frozen little girl that Malachi Constant had ever seen. There was a 
strange expression on her face, and Constant decided that she was worried about getting the least 
bit dirty. 
"Nice picture," said Constant. 
"Wouldn't it be too bad if she fell into a mud puddle?" said Rumfoord. 
Constant smiled uncertainly. 
"My wife as a child," said Rumfoord abruptly, and he led the way out of the room. 
He led the way down a back corridot and into a tiny room hardly larger than a big broom 
closet: It was ten feet long, six feet wide, and had a ceiling, like the rest of the rooms in the 
mansion, twenty feet high. The room was like a chimney. There were two wing chairs in it. 
"An architectural accident — " said Rumfoord, closing the door and looking up at the ceiling. 
"Pardon me?" said Constant. 
"This room," said Rumfoord. With a limp right hand, he made the magical sign for spiral 
staircase. "It was one of the few things in life I ever really wanted with all my heart when I was a 
boy — this little room." 
He nodded at shelves that ran six feet up the window wall. The shelves were beautifully made. 
Over the shelves was a driftwood plank that had written on it in blue paint: SKIP'S MUSEUM. 
Skip's Museum was a museum of mortal remains — of endoskeletons and exoskeletons — of 
shells, coral, bone, cartilage, and chiton — of dottles and orts and residua of souls long gone. 
Most of the specimens were those that a child — presumably Skip — could find easily on the 
beaches and in the woods of Newport. Some were obviously expensive presents to a child 
extraordinarily interested in the science of biology. Chief among these presents was the complete skeleton of an adult human male. 
There was also the empty suit of armor of an armadillo, a stuffed dodo, and the long spiral 
tusk of a narwhal, playfully labeled by Skip, Unicorn Horn. "Who is Skip?" said Constant. "I am Skip," said Rumfoord. "Was." "I didn't know," said Constant. 
"Just in the family, of course," said Rumfoord. 
"Um," said Constant. 
Rumfoord sat down in one of the wing chairs, motioned Constant to the other. 
"Angels can't either, you know," said Rumfoord. 
"Can't what?" said Constant. 
"Reproduce," said Rumfoord. He offered Constant a cigarette, took one himself, and placed it 
in a long, bone cigarette holder. "I'm sorry my wife was too indisposed to come 
downstairs — to 
meet you," he said. "It isn't you she's avoiding — it's me." 
"You?" said Constant. 
"That's correct," said Rumfoord. "She hasn't seen me since my first materialization." He 
chuckled ruefully. "Once was enough." "I — I'm sorry," said Constant. "I don't understand." 
"She didn't like my fortunetelling," said Rumfoord. "She found it very upsetting, what little I 
told her about her future. She doesn't care to hear more." He sat back in his wing chair, inhaled 
deeply. "I tell you, Mr. Constant," he said genially, "it's a thankless job, telling people it's a hard, 
hard Universe they're in." "She said you'd told her to invite me," said Constant 
"She got the message from the butler," said Rumfoord. "I dared her to invite you, or she 
wouldn't have done it. You might keep that in mind: the only way to get her to do anything is to 
tell her she hasn't got the courage to do it. Of course, it isn't an infallible technique. I could send 
her a message now, telling her that she doesn't have the courage to face the future, and she would 
send me back a message saying I was right." "You — you really can see into the future?" said Constant. The skin of his face 
tightened, felt parched. His palms perspired. 
"In a punctual way of speaking — yes," said Rumfoord. "When I ran my space ship into the 
chrono-synclastic infundibulum, it came to me in a flash that everything that ever has been 
always will be, and everything that ever will be always has been." He chuckled again. "Knowing 
that rather takes the glamour out of fortunetelling — makes it the simplest, most obvious thing 
imaginable." 
"You told your wife everything that was going to happen to her?" said Constant. This was a 
glancing question. Constant had no interest in what was going to happen to Rumfoord's wife. He 
was ravenous for news of himself. In asking about Rumfoord's wife, he was being coy. 
"Well — not everything," said Rumfoord. "She wouldn't let me tell her everything. What little 
I did tell her quite spoiled her appetite for more." "I — I see," said Constant, not seeing at all. 
"Yes," said Rumfoord genially, "I told her that you and she were to be married on Mars." He 
shrugged. "Not married exactly — " he said, "but bred by the Martians — like farm animals." 
Winston Niles Rumfoord was a member of the one true American class. The 
class was a true 
one because its limits had been clearly defined for at least two centuries — clearly defined for 
anyone with an eye for definitions. From Rumfoord's small class had come a tenth of America's 
presidents, a quarter of its explorers, a third of its Eastern Seaboard governors, a half of its fulltime ornithologists, three-quarters of its great yachtsmen, and virtually all of its underwriters of 
the deficits of grand opera. It was a class singularly free of quacks, with the notable exception of 
political quacks. The political quackery was a means of gaining office — and was never carried 
into private life. Once in office, members of the class became, almost without exception, 
magnificently responsible. 
If Rumfoord accused the Martians of breeding people as though people were no better than 
farm animals, he was accusing the Martians of doing no more than his own class had done. The 
strength of his class depended to some extent on sound money management — but depended to a 
much larger extent on marriages based cynically on the sorts of children likely to be produced. 
Healthy, charming, wise children were the desiderata. 
The most competent, if humorless, analysis of Rumfoord's class is, beyond question, Waltham 
Kittredge's The American Philosopher Kings. It was Kittredge who proved that the dass was in 
fact a family, with its loose ends neatly turned back into a hard core of consanguinity through the 
agency of cousin marriages. Rumfoord and his wife, for instance, were third cousins, and 
detested each other. 
And when Rumfoord's class was diagramed by Kittredge, it resembled nothing so much as the 
hard, ball-like knot known as a monkey's fist. Waltham Kittredge often floundered in his The American Philosopher Kings, 
trying to 
translate the atmosphere of Rumfoord's class into words. Like the college professor he was, 
Kittredge groped only for big words, and, finding no apt ones, he coined a lot of untranslatable 
new ones. 
Of all Kittredge's jargon, only one term has ever found its way into conversation. The term is 
un-neurotic courage. It was that sort of courage, of course, that carried Winston Niles Rumfoord out 
into space. It 
was pure courage — not only pure of lusts for fame and money, but pure of any drives that 
smack of the misfit or screwball. There are, incidentally, two strong, common words that would have served 
handsomely, one or the other, in place of all of Kittredge's jargon. The words are style and 
gallantr y. When Rumfoord became the first person to own a private space ship, paying 
fifty-eight 
million dollars out of his own pocket for it — that was style. 
When the governments of the earth suspended all space exploration because of the chronosynclastic infundibula, and Rumfoord announced that he was going to Mars — that was style. 
When Rumfoord announced that he was taking a perfectly tremendous dog along, as though a 
space ship were nothing more than a sophisticated sports car, as though a trip to Mars were little 
more than a spin down the Connecticut Turnpike — that was style. 
When it was unknown what would happen if a space ship went into a chrono- synclastic 
infundibulum, and Rumfoord steered a course straight for the middle of one — that was gallantry 
indeed. 
To contrast Malachi Constant of Hollywood with Winston Niles Rumfoord of Newport and 
Eternity: Everything Rumfoord did he did with style, making all mankind look good. 
Everything Constant did he did in style — aggressively, loudly, childishly, wastefully — 
making himself and mankind look bad. 
Constant bristled with courage — but it was anything but un-neurotic. Every courageous thing 
he had ever done had been motivated by spitefulness and by goads from childhood that made 
fear seem puny indeed. 
Constant, having just heard from Rumfoord that he was to be mated to Rumfoord's wife on 
Mars, looked away from Rumfoord to the museum of remains along one wall. Constant's hands 
were clasped together, tightening on each other pulsingly. 
Constant cleared his throat several times. Then he whistled thinly between his tongue and the 
roof of his mouth. In all, he was behaving like a man who was waiting for a terrible pain to pass. 
He closed his eyes and sucked in air between his teeth. "Loo dee doo, Mr. Rumfoord," he said 
softly. He opened his eyes. "Mars?" be said. 
"Mars," said Rumfoord. "Of course, that isn't your ultimate destination — or Mercury either." 
"Mercury?" said Constant. He made an unbecoming quack of that lovely name. 
"Your destination is Titan," said Rumfoord, "but you visit Mars, Mercury, and Earth again 
before you get there." 
It is crucial to understand at what point in the history of punctual space exploration it was that 
Malachi Constant received the news of his prospective visits to Mars, Mercury, 
Earth, and Titan. 
The state of mind on Earth with regard to space exploration was much like the state of mind in 
Europe with regard to exploration of the Atlantic before Christopher Columbus set out. 
There were these important differences, however: the monsters between space explorers and 
their goals were not imaginary, but numerous, hideous, various, and uniformly cataclysmic; the 
cost of even a small expedition was enough to ruin most nations; and it was a virtual certainty 
that no expedition could increase the wealth of its sponsors. 
In short, on the basis of horse sense and the best scientific information, there was nothing good 
to be said for the exploration of space. 
The time was long past when one nation could seem more glorious than another by hurling 
some heavy object into nothingness. Galactic Spacecraft, a corporation controlled by Malachi 
Constant, had, as a matter of fact, received the very last order for such a showpiece, a rocket 
three hundred feet high and thirty-six feet in diameter. It had actually been built, but the fire 
order had never come. 
The ship was called simply The Whale, and was fitted with living quarters for five passengers. 
What had brought everything to such an abrupt halt was the discovery of the chrono-synclastic 
infundibula. They had been discovered mathematically, on the basis of bizarre flight patterns of 
unmanned ships sent out, supposedly, in advance of men. The discovery of the chrono-synclastic infundibula said to mankind in effect: " 
What makes 
you think you're going anywhere?" 
It was a situation made to order for American fundamentalist preachers. They were quicker 
than philosophers or historians or anybody to talk sense about the truncated Age of Space. Two 
hours after the firing of The Whale was called off indefinitely, the Reverend Bobby Denton 
shouted at his Love Crusade in Wheeling, West Virginia: 
"And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded. 
And the Lord said, "Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they 
begin to do; and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do. Go 
to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's 
speech." So the Lord scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth; and they 
left off to build the city. Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the 
Lord did there 
confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the Lord scatter them abroad upon 
the face of the earth.'" 
Bobby Denton spitted his audience on a bright and loving gaze, and proceeded to roast it 
whole over the coals of its own iniquity. "Are these not Bible times?" he said. "Have we not 
builded of steel and pride an abomination far taller than the Tower of Babel of old? And did we 
not mean, like those builders of old, to get right into Heaven with it? And haven't we heard it 
said many times that the language of scientists is international? They all use the same Latin and 
Greek words for things, and they all talk the language of numbers." This seemed a particularly 
damning piece of evidence to Denton, and the Love Crusaders agreed bleakly without quite 
understanding why. 
"So why should we cry out in surprise and pain now when God says to us what He said to the 
people who builded the Tower of Babel: 'No! Get away from there! You aren't going to Heaven 
or anywhere else with that thing! Scatter, you hear? Quit talking the language of science to each 
other! Nothing will be restrained from you which you have imagined to do, if 
you all keep on 
talking the language of science to each other, and I don't want that! I, your Lord God on High 
want things restrained from you, so you will quit thinking about crazy towers and rockets to 
Heaven, and start thinking about how to be better neighbors and husbands and wives and 
daughters and sons! Don't look to rockets for salvation — look to your homes and churches!'" 
Bobby Denton's voice grew hoarse and hushed. "You want to fly through space? God has 
already given you the most wonderful space ship in all creation! Yes! Speed? You want speed? 
The space ship God has given you goes sixty-six thousand miles an hour — and will keep on 
running at that speed for all eternity, if God wills it. You want a space ship that will carry men in 
comfort? You've got it! It won't carry just a rich man and his dog, or just five men or ten men. 
No! God is no piker! He's given you a space ship that will carry billions of men, women, and 
children! Yes! And they don't have to stay strapped in chairs or wear fishbowls over their heads. 
No! Not on God's space ship. The people on God's space ship can go swimming, and walk in the 
sunshine and play baseball and go ice skating and go for family rides in the family automobile on 
Sunday after church and a family chicken dinner!" 
Bobby Denton nodded. "Yes!" he said. "And if anybody thinks his God is mean for putting 
things out in space to stop us from flying out there, just let him remember the space ship God 
already gave us. And we don't have to buy the fuel for it, and worry and fret over what kind of 
fuel to use. No! God worries about all that. 
"God told us what we had to do on this wonderful space ship. He wrote the rules so anybody 
could understand them. You don't have to be a physicist or a great chemist or an Albert Einstein 
to understand them. No! And He didn't make a whole lot of rules, either. They tell me that if they 
were to fire The Whale, they would have to make eleven thousand separate checks before they 
could be sure it was ready to go: Is this valve open, is that valve dosed, is that wire tight, is that 
tank full? — and on and on and on to eleven thousand things to check. Here on God's space ship, 
God only gives us ten things to check — and not for any little trip to some big, dead poisonous 
stones out in space, but for a trip to the Kingdom of Heaven! Think of it! Where would you 
rather be tomorrow — on Mars or in the Kingdom of Heaven? "You know what the check list is on God's round, green space ship? Do I have to 
tell you? 
You want to hear God's countdown?" 
The Love Crusaders shouted back that they did. 
"Ten! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you covet thy neighbor's house, or his manservant, or his 
maidservant, or his ox, or his ass, or anything that is thy neighbor's?" "No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Nine! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you bear false witness against thy neighbor?" 
"No!" cried the Love Crusaders. "Eight! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you steal?" "No!" cried 
the Love Crusaders. "Seven! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you commit adultery?" 
"No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Six! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you kill?" 
"No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Five! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you honor thy father and thy mother?" 
"Yes!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Four! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you remember the Sabbath day, and keep it holy?" 
"Yes!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Three! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you take the name of the Lord thy God in vain?" 
"No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Two! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you make any graven images?" "No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"One! — " cried Bobby Denton. "Do you put any gods before the one true Lord thy God?" 
"No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Blast off!" shouted Bobby Denton joyfully. "Paradise, here we come! Blast off, children, and 
Amen!" 
"Well — " murmured Malachi Constant, there in the chimneylike room under the staircase in 
Newport, "it looks like the messenger is finally going to be used." "What was that?" said Rumfoord. 
"My name — it means faithful messenger," said Constant. "What's the message?" 
"Sorry," said Rumfoord, "I know nothing about any message." He cocked his head quizzically. 
"Somebody said something to you about a message?" 
Constant turned his palms upward. "I mean — what am I going to go to all this trouble to get 
to Triton for?" "Titan," Rumfoord corrected him. 
"Titan, Triton," said Constant. "What the blast would I go there for?" Blast was a weak, prissy, 
Eagle-Scoutish word for Constant to use — and it took him a moment to realize why he had used 
it. Blast was what space cadets on television said when a meteorite carried away a control 
surface, or the navigator turned out to be a space pirate from the planet Zircon. He stood. "Why 
the hell should I go there?" "You do — I promise you," said Rumfoord. 
Constant went over to the window, some of his arrogant strength returning. "I tell you right 
now," he said, "I'm not going." 
"Sorry to hear that," said Rumfoord. 
"I'm supposed to do something for you when I get there?" said Constant. 
"No," said Rumfoord. 
"Then why are you sorry?" said Constant. "What's it to you?" 
"Nothing," said Rumfoord. "I'm only sorry for you. You'll really be missing something." 
"Like what?" said Constant. "Well — the most pleasant climate imaginable, for one thing," said Rumfoord. 
"Climate!" said Constant contemptuously. "With houses in Hollywood, the Vale of Kashmir, 
Acapulco, Manitoba, Tahiti, Paris, Bermuda, Rome, New York, and Capetown, I should leave 
Earth in search of happier climes?" 
"There's more to Titan than just climate" said Rumfoord. "The women, for instance, are the 
most beautiful creatures between the Sun and Betelgeuse." 
Constant guffawed bitterly. "Women!" he said. "You think I'm having trouble getting beautiful 
women? You think I'm love-starved, and the only way I'll ever get close to a beautiful woman is 
to climb on a rocket ship and head for one of Saturn's moons? Are you kidding? I've had women 
so beautiful, anybody between the Sun and Betelgeuse would sit down and cry if the women said 
as much as hello to 'em!" 
He took out his billfold, and slipped from it a photograph of his most recent conquest. There 
was no question about it — the girl in the photograph was staggeringly beautiful. She was Miss 
Canal Zone, a runner-up in the Miss Universe Contest — and in fact far more beautiful than the 
winner of the contest. Her beauty had frightened the judges. 
Constant handed Rumfoord the photograph. "They got anything like that on Titan?" he said. 
Rumfoord studied the photograph respectfully, handed it back. "No — " he said, "nothing like 
that on Titan." 
"O.K.," said Constant, feeling very much in control of his own destiny again, "climate, 
beautiful women — what else?" "Nothing else," said Rumfoord mildly. He shrugged. "Oh — art objects, if you 
like art." "I've got the biggest private art collection in the world," said Constant. 
Constant had inherited this famous art collection. The collection had been made by his father 
— or, rather, by agents of his father. It was scattered through museums all over the world, each 
piece plainly marked as a part of the Constant Collection. The collection had been made and then 
deployed in this manner on the recommendation of the Director of Public Relations of Magnum 
Opus, Incorporated, the corporation whose sole purpose was to manage the Constant affairs. 
The purpose of the collection had been to prove how generous and useful and sensitive 
billionaires could be. The collection had turned out to be a perfectly gorgeous investment, as 
well. "That takes care of art," said Rumfoord. 
Constant was about to return the photograph of Miss Canal Zone to his billfold, when he felt 
that he held not one photograph but two. There was a photograph behind that of Miss Canal 
Zone. He supposed that that was a photograph of Miss Canal Zone's predecessor, and he thought 
that he might as well show Rumfoord her, too — show Rumfoord what a celestial lulu he had 
given the gate to. 
"There — there's another one," said Constant, holding out the second photograph to 
Rumfoord. 
Rumfoord made no move to take the photograph. He didn't even bother to look at it. He 
looked instead into Constant's eyes and grinned roguishly. 
Constant looked down at the photograph that had been ignored. He found that it was not a 
photograph of Miss Canal Zone's predecessor. It was a photograph that Rumfoord had slipped to 
him. It was no ordinary photograph, though its surface was glossy and its margins white. 
Within the margins lay shimmering depths. The effect was much like that of a rectangular 
glass window in the surface of a clear, shallow, coral bay. At the bottom of that seeming coral 
bay were three women — one white, one gold, one brown. They looked up at Constant, begging 
him to come to them, to make them whole with love. 
Their beauty was to the beauty of Miss Canal Zone as the glory of the Sun was to the glory of 
a lightning bug. 
Constant sank into a wing chair again. He had to look away from all that beauty in order to 
keep from bursting into tears. 
"You can keep that picture, if you like," said Rumfoord. "It's wallet size." Constant could think of nothing to say. 
"My wife will still be with you when you get to Titan," said Rumfoord, "but she won't 
interfere if you want to frolic with these three young ladies. Your son will be with you, too, but 
he'll be quite as broadminded as Beatrice." 
"Son?" said Constant. He had no son. 
"Yes — a fine boy named Chrono," said Rumfoord. 
"Chrono?" said Constant. 
"A Martian name," said Rumfoord. "He's born on Mars — by you, out of Beatrice." 
"Beatrice?" said Constant. 
"My wife," said Rumfoord. He had become quite transparent. His voice was becoming tinny, 
too, as though coming from a cheap radio. "Things fly this way and that, my boy," he said, "with 
or without messages. It's chaos, and no mistake, for the Universe is just being born. It's the great 
becoming that makes the light and the heat and the motion, and bangs you from hither to yon. 
"Predictions, predictions, predictions," said Rumfoord musingly. "Is there anything else I 
should tell you? Ohhhhh — yes, yes, yes. This child of yours, this boy named Chrono — 
"Chrono will pick up a little strip of metal on Mars — " said Rumfoord, "and he will call it his 
'goodluck piece.' Keep your eye on that good-luck piece, Mr. Constant. It's unbelievably 
important." 
Winston Niles Rumfoord vanished slowly, beginning with the ends of his fingers, and ending 
with his grin. The grin remained some time after the rest of him had gone. "See you on Titan," said the grin. And then it was gone. 
"Is it all over, Moncrief?" Mrs. Winston Niles Rumfoord called down to the butler from the 
top of the spiral staircase. "Yes, Mum — he's left," said the butler, "and the dog, too." 
"And that Mr. Constant?" said Mrs. Rumfoord — said Beatrice. She was behaving like an 
invalid — tottering, blinking hard, making her voice like wind in the treetops. She wore a long 
white dressing gown whose soft folds formed a counter-clockwise spiral in harmony with the 
white staircase. The train of the gown cascaded down the top riser, making Beatrice Continuous 
with the architecture of the mansion. 
It was her tall, straight figure that mattered most in the display. The details of her face were 
insignificant. A cannonball, substituted for her head, would have suited the grand composition as 
well. 
But Beatrice did have a face — and an interesting one. It could be said that she looked like a 
bucktoothed Indian brave. But anyone who said that would have to add quickly that she looked 
marvelous. Her face, like the face of Malachi Constant, was a one-of-a-kind, a surprising 
variation on a familiar theme — a variation that made observers think, Yes — that would be 
another very nice way for people to look. What Beatrice had done with her face, actually, was 
what any plain girl could do. She had overlaid it with dignity, suffering, intelligence, and a 
piquant dash of bitchiness. 
"Yes," said Constant from below, "that Mr. Constant is still here." He was in plain view, 
leaning against a column in the arch that opened onto the foyer. But he was so low in the 
composition, so lost in architectural details as to be almost invisible. 
"Oh!" said Beatrice. "How do you do." It was a very empty greeting. 
"How do you do," said Constant. 
"I can only appeal to your gentlemanly instincts," said Beatrice, "in asking you not to spread 
the story of your meeting with my husband far and wide. I can well understand how tremendous 
the temptation to do so must be." 
"Yes — " said Constant, "I could sell my story for a lot of money, pay off the mortgage on the 
homestead, and become an internationally famous figure. I could hob-nob with the great and 
near-great, and perform before the crowned heads of Europe." 
"You'll pardon me," said Beatrice, "if I fail to appreciate sarcasm and all the other brilliant 
nuances of your no doubt famous wit, Mr. Constant. These visits of my husband's make me ill." 
"You never see him any more, do you?" said Constant. 
"I saw him the first time he materialized," said Beatrice, "and that was enough to make me ill 
for the rest of my days." 
"I liked him very much," said Constant. 
"The insane, on occasion, are not without their charms," said Beatrice. 
"Insane?" said Constant. 
"As a man of the world, Mr. Constant," said Beatrice, "wouldn't you say that any person who 
made complicated and highly improbable prophecies was mad?" 
"Well — " said Constant, "is it really very crazy to tell a man who has access to the biggest 
space ship ever built that he's going out into space?" 
This bit of news, about the accessibility of a space ship to Constant, startled Beatrice. It 
startled her so much that she took a step back from the head of the staircase, 
separated herself 
from the rising spiral. The small step backward transformed her into what she was — a 
frightened, lonely woman in a tremendous house. "You have a space ship, do you?" she said. 
"A company I control has custody of one," said Constant. "You've heard of The Whale?" 
"Yes," said Beatrice. 
"My company sold it to the Government," said Constant. "I think they'd be delighted if 
someone would buy it back at five cents on the dollar." 
"Much luck to you on your expedition," said Beatrice. 
Constant bowed. "Much luck to you on yours," he said. 
He left without another word. In crossing the bright zodiac on the foyer floor, he sensed that 
the spiral staircase now swept down rather than up. Constant became the bottommost point in a 
whirlpool of fate. As he walked out the door, he was delightfully aware of pull. lug the aplomb 
of the Rumfoord mansion right out with him. 
Since it was foreordained that he and Beatrice were to come together again, to produce a child 
named Chrono, Constant was under no compunction to seek and woo her, to send her so much as 
a get-well card. He could go about his business, he thought, and the haughty 
Beatrice would have to damn well come to him — like any other bimbo. 
He was laughing when he put on his dark glasses and false beard and let himself out through 
the little iron door in the wall. The limousine was back, and so was the crowd. 
The police held open a narrow path to the limousine door. Constant scuttled down it, reached 
the limousine. The path closed like the Red Sea behind the Children of Israel. The cries of the 
crowd, taken together, were a collective cry of indignation and pain. The crowd, having been 
promised nothing, felt cheated, having received nothing. 
Men and boys began to rock Constant's limousine. The chauffeur put the limousine in gear, 
made it creep through the sea of raging flesh. 
A bald man made an attempt on Constant's life with a hot dog, stabbed at the window glass 
with it, splayed the bun, broke the frankfurter — left a sickly sunburst of mustard and relish. 
"Yah, yah, yah!" yelled a pretty young woman, and she showed Constant what she had 
probably never showed any other man. She showed him that her two upper front teeth were false. 
She let those two front teeth fall out of place. She shrieked like a witch. 
A boy climbed on the hood, blocking the chauffeur's view. He ripped off the windshield 
wipers, threw them to the crowd. It took the limousine three-quarters of an hour to reach a fringe 
of the crowd. And on the fringe were not the lunatics but the nearly sane. 
Only on the fringe did the shouts become coherent. 
"Tell us!" shouted a man, and he was merely fed up — not enraged. 
"We've got a right!" shouted a woman. She showed her two fine children to Constant. 
Another woman told Constant what it was the crowd felt it had a right to. "We've got a right to 
know what's going on!" she cried. 
The riot, then, was an exercise in science and theology — a seeking after clues by the living as 
to what life was all about. 
The chauffeur, seeing at last a clear road before him, pressed the accelerator to the floor. The 
limousine zoomed away. 
A huge billboard flashed by. LET'S TAKE A FRIEND TO THE CHURCH OF OUR 
CHOICE ON SUNDAY! it said. 
CHAPTER TWO CHEERS IN THE WIREHOUSE 
"Sometimes I think it is a great mistake to have matter that can think and feel. It complains so. By the same token, though, I suppose that boulders and mountains and moons could be accused of being a little too phlegmatic." 
— WINSTON NILES RUMFOORD 
The limousine zoomed north out of Newport, turned down a gravel road, kept a rendezvous with 
a helicopter that was waiting in a pasture. 
The purpose of Malachi Constant's switch from the limousine to the helicopter was to prevent 
anyone's following him, to prevent anyone's discovering who the bearded and bespectacled 
visitor to the Rumfoord estate had been. No one knew where Constant was. 
Neither the chauffeur nor the pilot knew the true identity of their passenger. Constant was Mr. 
Jonah K. Rowley to both. 
"Mist' Rowley, suh — ?" said the chauffeur, as Constant stepped out of the limousine. 
"Yes?" said Constant. 
"Wasn't you scared, suh?" said the chauffeur. 
"Scared?" said Constant, sincerely puzzled by the question. "Of what?" 
"Of what?" said the chauffeur incredulously. "Why, of all them crazy people who liked to 
lynch us." 
Constant smiled and shook his head. Not once in the midst of the violence had he expected to 
be hurt. "It hardly helps to panic, do you think?" he said. In his own words he recognized 
Rumfoord's phrasing — even a little of Rumfoord's aristocratic yodel. 
"Man — you must have some kind of guardian angel — lets you keep cool as a cucumber, no 
matter what," said the chauffeur admiringly. 
This comment interested Constant, for it described well his attitude in the midst of the mob. 
He took the comment at first as an analogy — as a poetic description of his mood. A man who 
had a guardian angel would certainly have felt just as Constant had — "Yes, suh!" said the 
chauffeur. "Sumpin' sure must be lookin' out for you!" Then it hit Constant: This was exactly the case. 
Until that moment of truth, Constant had looked upon his Newport adventure as one more 
drug-induced hallucination — as one more peyotl party — vivid, novel, 
entertaining, and of no consequence whatsoever. 
The little door had been a dreamy touch . . . the dry fountain another . . . and the huge painting 
of the all white touch-me-not little girl with the all white pony . . . and the chimney-like room 
under the spiral staircase . . . and the photograph of the three sirens on Titan . . . and Rumfoord's 
prophecies . . . and the discomfiture of Beatrice Rumfoord at the top of the stairs ... 
Malachi Constant broke into a cold sweat. His knees threatened to buckle and his eyelids came 
unhinged. He was finally understanding that every bit of it had been real! He had been calm in 
the midst of the mob because he knew he Wasn't going to die on Earth. 
Something was looking out for him, all right. 
And whatever it was, it was saving his skin for — 
Constant quaked as he counted on his fingers the points of interest on the itinerary Rumfoord 
had promised him. Mars. Then Mercury. Then Earth again. Then Titan. 
Since the itinerary ended on Titan, presumably that was where Malachi Constant was going to 
die. He was going to die there! What had Rumfoord been so cheerful about? 
Constant shuffled over to the helicopter, rocked the great, ramshackle bird as he climbed 
inside. 
"You Rowley?" said the pilot. 
"That's right," said Constant. 
"Unusual first name you got, Mr. Rowley," said the pilot. 
"Beg your pardon?" said Constant nauseously. He was looking through the plastic dome of the 
cockpit cover — looking up into the evening sky. He was wondering if there could possibly be 
eyes up there, eyes that could see everything he did. And if there were eyes up there, and they 
wanted him to do certain things, go certain places — how could they make him? 
Oh God — but it looked thin and cold up there! 
"I said you've got an unusual first name," said the pilot. 
"What name's that?" said Constant, who had forgotten the foolish first name he had chosen for 
his disguise. "Jonah," said the pilot. Fifty-nine days later, Winston Niles Rumfoord and his loyal dog Kazak 
materialized again. A lot had happened since their last visit. 
For one thing, Malachi Constant had sold out all his holdings in Galactic Spacecraft, the 
corporation that had the custody of the great rocket ship called The Whale. He had done this to 
destroy every connection between himself and the only known means of getting to Mars. He had 
put the proceeds of the sale into MoonMist Tobacco. 
For another thing, Beatrice Rumfoord had liquidated her diversified portfolio of securities, and 
had put the proceeds into shares of Galactic Spacecraft, intending thereby to get a leather-lunged 
voice in whatever was done with The Whale. For another thing, Malachi Constant had taken to writing Beatrice Rumford 
offensive letters, 
in order to keep her away — in order to make himself absolutely and permanently intolerable to 
her. To see one of these letters was to see them all. The most recent one went like this, written on 
stationery of Magnum Opus, Inc., the corporation whose sole purpose was to manage the 
financial affairs of Malachi Constant. 
Hello from sunny California, Space Baby! Gee, I am sure looking forward to jazzing a high- 
class dame like you under the twin moons of Mars. You're the only kind of dame 
I never had, and 
I'll bet your kind is the greatest. Love and kisses for a starter. Mal. 
For another thing, Beatrice had bought a capsule of cyanide — more deadly, surely, than 
Cleopatra's asp. It was Beatrice's intention to swallow it if ever she had to share so much as the 
same time zone with Malachi Constant. 
For another thing, the stock market had crashed, wiping out Beatrice Rumford, among others. 
She had bought Galactic Spacecraft shares at prices ranging from 1511⁄2 to 169. The stock had 
fallen to 6 in ten trading sessions, and now lay there, trembling fractional points. Since Beatrice 
had bought on margin as well as for cash, she had lost everything, including her Newport home. 
She had nothing left but her clothes, her good name, and her finishing school education. 
For another thing, Malachi Constant had thrown a party two days after returning to Hollywood 
— and only now, fifty-six days later, was it petering out. 
For another thing, a genuinely bearded young man named Martin Koradubian had identified 
himself as the bearded stranger who had been invited into the Rumford estate to see a 
materialization. He was a repairer of solar watches in Boston, and a charming liar. 
A magazine had bought his story for three thousand dollars, 
Sitting in Skip's Museum under the spiral staircase, Winston Niles Rumfoord read 
Koradubian's magazine story with delight and admiration. Koradubian claimed in his story that 
Rumfoord had told him about the year Ten Million A.D. 
In the year Ten Million, according to Koradubian, there would be a tremendous housecleaning. All records relating to the period between the death of Christ and the year One Million 
A.D. would be hauled to dumps and burned. This would be done, said Koradubian, because 
museums and archives would be crowding the living right off the earth. 
The million-year period to which the burned junk related would be summed up in history 
books in one sentence, according to Koradubian: Following the death of Jesus Christ, there was 
a period of readjustment that lasted for approximately one million years. Winston Niles Rumfoord laughed and laid Koradubian's article aside. Rumford 
loved nothing 
more than a thumping good fraud. "Ten Million A.D. — " he said out loud, "a great year for 
fireworks and parades and world's fairs. A merry time for cracking open cornerstones and 
digging up time capsules." 
Rumfoord wasn't talking to himself. There was someone else in Skip's Museum with him. 
The other person was his wife Beatrice. 
Beatrice was sitting in the facing wing chair. She had come downstairs to ask her husband's 
help in a time of great need. 
Rumfoord blandly changed the subject. 
Beatrice, already ghostly in a white peignoir, turned the color of lead. 
"What an optimistic animal man is!" said Rumfoord rosily. "Imagine expecting the species to 
last for ten million more years — as though people were as well-designed as turtles!" He 
shrugged. "Well — who knows — maybe human beings will last that long, just on the basis of 
pure cussedness. What's your guess?" 
"What?" said Beatrice. 
"Guess how long the human race will be around," said Rumfoord. 
From between Beatrice's clenched teeth came a frail, keen, sustained note so high as to be 
almost above the range of the human ear. The sound bore the same ghastly promise as the 
whistle of fins on a falling bomb. 
Then the explosion came. Beatrice capsized her chair, attacked the skeleton, threw it crashing 
into a corner. She cleaned off the shelves of Skip's Museum, bouncing specimens off the walls, 
trampling them on the floor. 
Rumfoord was flabbergasted. "Good God — " he said, "what made you do that?" 
"Don't you know everything?" said Beatrice hysterically. "Does anybody have to tell you 
anything? Just read my mind!" 
Rumfoord put his palms to his temples, his eyes wide. "Static — all I get is static," he said. 
"What else would there be but static!" said Beatrice. "I'm going to be thrown right out in the 
street, without even the price of a meal — and my husband laughs and wants me to play guessing 
games!" 
"It wasn't any ordinar y guessing game," said Rumford. "It was about how long the human race 
was going to last. I thought that might sort of give you more perspective about your own 
problems." 
"The hell with the human race!" said Beatrice. 
"You're a member of it, you know," said Rumfoord. 
"Then I'd like to put in for a transfer to the chimpanzees!" said Beatrice. "No chimpanzee 
husband would stand by while his wife lost all her coconuts. No chimpanzee husband would try 
to make his wife into a space whore for Malachi Constant of Hollywood, California!" 
Having said this ghastly thing, Beatrice subsided some. She wagged her head tiredly. "How 
long is the human race going to be around, Master?" 
"I don't know," said Rumfoord. 
"I thought you knew everything," said Beatrice. "Just take a look at the future." 
"I look at the future," said Rumfoord, "and I find that I shall not be in the Solar System when 
the human race dies out. So the end is as much a mystery to me as to you." 
In Hollywood, California, the chimes of the blue telephone in the rhinestone phone booth by 
Malachi Constant's swimming pool were ringing. 
It is always pitiful when any human being falls into a condition hardly more respectable than 
that of an animal. How much more pitiful it is when the person who falls has had all the 
advantages! 
Malachi Constant lay in the wide gutter of his kidney-shaped swimming pool, sleeping the 
sleep of a drunkard. There was a quarter of an inch of warm water in the gutter. Constant was 
fully dressed in blue-green evening shorts and a dinner jacket of gold brocade. His clothes were 
soaked, He was all alone. 
The pool had once been covered uniformly by an undulating blanket of gardenias. But a 
persistent morning breeze had moved the blooms to one end of the pool, as 
though folding a 
blanket to the foot of a bed. In folding back the blanket, the breeze revealed a pool bottom paved 
with broken glass, cherries, twists of lemon peel, peyotl buttons, slices of orange, stuffed olives, 
sour onions, a television set, a hypodermic syringe, and the ruins of a white grand piano. Cigar 
butts and cigarette butts, some of them marijuana, littered the surface. 
The swimming pool looked less like a facility for sport than like a punchbowl in hell. 
One of Constant's arms dangled in the pool itself. From the wrist underwater came the glint of 
his solar watch. The watch had stopped. The telephone's chimes persisted. Constant mumbled but did not move. The chimes stopped. Then, after twenty seconds, the chimes began again. Constant groaned, sat up, groaned. 
From the inside of the house came a brisk, efficient sound, high heels on a tile floor. A 
ravishing, brassy blond woman crossed from the house to the phone booth, giving Constant a 
look of haughty contempt. She was chewing gum. 
"Yah?" she said into the telephone. "Oh — it's you again. Yah — he's awake. Hey!" she yelled 
at Constant. She had a voice like a grackle. "Hey, space cadet!" she yelled. "Hm?" said Constant. "The guy who's president of that company you own wants to talk to you." "Which company?" said Constant. 
"Which company you president of?" said the woman into the telephone. She got her answer. 
"Magnum Opus," she said. "Ransom K. Fern of Magnum Opus," she said. "Tell him — tell him I'll call him back," said Constant. 
The woman told Fern, got another message to relay to Constant. "He says he's quitting." 
Constant stood unsteadily, rubbing his face with his hands. "Quitting?" he said dully. "Old 
Ransom K. Fern quitting?" 
"Yah," said the woman. She smiled hatefully. "He says you can't afford to pay his salary any 
more. He says you better come in and talk to him before he goes home." She laughed. "He says 
you're broke." 
Back in Newport, the racket of Beatrice Rumfoord's outburst had attracted Moncrief the butler 
to Skip's Museum. "You called, Mum?" he said. "It was more of a scream, Moncrief," said Beatrice. 
"She doesn't want anything, thank you," said Rumfoord. "We were simply having a spirited 
discussion." 
"How dare you say whether I want something or not?" said Beatrice hotly to Rumfoord. "I'm 
beginning to catch on that you're not nearl y as omniscient as you pretend to be. It so happens I 
want something very much. I want a number of things very much." "Mum?" said the butler. 
"I'd like you to let the dog in, please," said Beatrice. "I'd like to pet him before he goes. I 
would like to find out if a chrono-synclastic infundibula kills love in a dog the way it kills love in 
a man." 
The butler bowed and left. 
"That was a pretty scene to play before a servant," said Rumfoord. 
"By and large," said Beatrice, "my contribution to the dignity of the family has been somewhat 
greater than yours." 
Rumfoord hung his head. "I've failed you in some way? Is that what you're saying?" 
"In some way?" said Beatrice. "In ever y way!" "What would you have me do?" said Rumfoord. 
"You could have told me this stock-market crash was coming!" said Beatrice. "You could 
have spared me what I'm going through now." 
Rumfoord's hands worked in air, unhappily trying on various lines of argument for size. 
"Well?" said Beatrice. 
"I just wish we could go out to the chrono-synclastic infundibula together," said Rumfoord. 
"So you could see for once what I was talking about. All I can say is that my failure to warn you 
about the stock-market crash is as much a part of the natural order as Halley's Comet — and it 
makes an equal amount of sense to rage against either one." 
"You're saying you have no character, and no sense of responsibility toward me," said 
Beatrice. "I'm sorry to put it that way, but it's the truth." 
Rumfoord rocked his head back and forth. "A truth — but, oh God, what a punctual truth," he 
said. 
Rumfoord retreated into his magazine again. The magazine opened naturally to the center 
spread, which was a color ad for MoonMist Cigarettes. MoonMist Tobacco, Ltd., had been 
bought recently by Malachi Constant. 
Pleasure in Depth! said the headline on the ad. The picture that went with it was the picture of 
the three sirens of Titan. There they were — the white girl, the golden girl, and the brown girl. 
The fingers of the golden girl were fortuitously spread as they rested on her left 
breast, 
permitting an artist to paint in a MoonMist Cigarette between two of them. The smoke from her 
cigarette passed beneath the nostrils of the brown and white girls, and their space-annihilating 
concupiscence seemed centered on mentholated smoke alone. 
Rumfoord had known that Constant would try to debase the picture by using it in commerce. 
Constant's father had done a similar thing when he found he could not buy Leonardo's "Mona 
Lisa" at any price. The old man had punished Mona Lisa by having her used in an advertising 
campaign for suppositories. It was the free-enterprise way of handling beauty that threatened to 
get the upper hand. 
Rumfoord made a buzzing sound on his lips, which was a sound he made when he approached 
compassion. The compassion he approached was for Malachi Constant, who was having a far 
worse time of it than Beatrice. 
"Have I heard your whole defense?" said Beatrice, coming behind Rumford's chair. Her arms 
were folded, and Rumfoord, reading her mind, knew that she thought of her sharp, projected 
elbows as bullfighter's swords. "I beg your pardon?" said Rumfoord. 
"This silence — this hiding in the magazine — this is the sum and total of your rebuttal?" said 
Beatrice. 
"Rebuttal — a punctual word if there ever was one," said Rumfoord. "I say this, and then you 
rebut me, then I rebut you, then somebody else comes in and rebuts us both." He shuddered. 
"What a nightmare where everybody gets in line to rebut each other." 
"Couldn't you, this very moment," said Beatrice, "give me stock-market tips that would enable 
me to gain back everything I lost and more? If you had one shred of concern for me, couldn't you 
tell me exactly how Malachi Constant of Hollywood is going to try to trick me into going to 
Mars, so I could outwit him?" 
"Look," said Rumfoord, "life for a punctual person is like a roller coaster." He turned to shiver 
his hands in her face. "All kinds of things are going to happen to you! Sure," he said, "I can see 
the whole roller coaster you're on. And sure — I could give you a piece of paper that would tell 
you about every dip and turn, warn you about every bogeyman that was going to pop out at you 
in the tunnels. But that wouldn't help you any." "I don't see why not," said Beatrice. "Because you'd still have to take the roller-coaster ride," said Rumford. "I didn't 
design the 
roller coaster, I don't own it, and I don't say who rides and who doesn't. I just know what it's 
shaped like." 
"And Malachi Constant is part of the roller coaster?" said Beatrice. 
"Yes," said Rumfoord. 
"And there's no avoiding him?" said Beatrice. 
"No," said Rumfoord. 
"Well — suppose you tell me then, just what steps bring us together," said Beatrice, "and let 
me do what little I can." 
Rumfoord shrugged. "All right — if you wish," he said. "If it would make you feel better — 
"At this very moment," he said, "the President of the United States is announcing a New Age 
of Space to relieve unemployment. Billions of dollars are going to be spent on unmanned space 
ships, just to make work. The opening episode in this New Age of Space will be the firing of The 
Whale next Tuesday. The Whale will be renamed The Rumfoord in my honor, will be loaded with 
organ-grinder monkeys, and will be fired in the general direction of Mars. You and Constant will 
both take part in the ceremonies. You will go on board for a ceremonial inspection, and a faulty 
switch will send you on your way with the monkeys." 
It is worth stopping the narrative at this point to say that this cock-and-bull story told to 
Beatrice is one of the few known instances of Winston Niles Rumfoord's having told a lie. 
This much of Rumfoord's story was true: The Whale was going to be renamed and fired on 
Tuesday, and the President of the United States was announcing a New Age of Space. 
Some of the President's comments at the time bear repeating — and it should be remembered 
that the President gave the word "progress" a special flavor by pronouncing it prog-erse. He also 
flavored the words "chair" and "warehouse," pronouncing them cheer and wirehouse. 
"Now, some people are going around saying the American economy is old and sick," said the 
President, "and I frankly can't understand how they can say such a thing, because there is now 
more opportunity for progerse on all fronts than at any time in human history. 
"And there is one frontier we can make particular progerse on and that is the great frontier of 
space. We have been turned back by space once, but it isn't the American way to take no for an 
answer where progerse is concerned. "Now, people of faint heart come to see me every day at the White House," said 
the President, 
"and they weep and wail and say, 'Oh, Mr. President, the wirehouses are all full of automobiles 
and airplanes and kitchen appliances and various other products,' and they say, 'Oh, Mr. 
President, there is nothing more that anybody wants the factories to make because everybody 
already has two, three, and four of everything.' 
"One man in particular, I remember, was a cheer manufacturer, and he had way overproduced, 
and all he could think about was all those cheers in the wirehouse. And I said to him, 'In the next 
twenty years, the population of the world is going to double, and all those billions of new people 
are going to need things to sit down on, so you just hang on to those cheers. Meanwhile, why 
don't you forget about those cheers in the wirehouse and think about progerse in space?' 
"I said to him and I say to you and I say to everybody, 'Space can absorb the productivity of a 
trillion planets the size of earth. We could build and fire rockets forever, and never fill up space 
and never learn all there is to know about it. 
"Now, these same people who like to weep and wail so much say, 'Oh, but Mr. President, what 
about the chrono-synclastic infundibula and what about this and what about 
that?' And I say to 
them, 'If people listened to people like you, there wouldn't ever be any progerse. There wouldn't 
be the telephone or anything. And besides,' I tell them and I tell you and I tell everybody, 'we 
don't have to put people in the rocket ships. We will use the lower animals only.'" 
There was more to the speech. 
Malachi Constant of Hollywood, California, came out of the rhinestone phone booth cold 
sober. His eyes felt like cinders. His mouth tasted like horseblanket purée. He was positive that he had never seen the beautiful blond woman before. 
He asked her one of the standard questions for times of violent change. "Where is everybody?" 
he said. 
"You threw 'em all out," said the woman. 
"I did?" said Constant 
"Yah," said the woman. "You mean you drew a blank?" 
Constant nodded weakly. During the fifty-six-day party he had reached a point where he could 
draw almost nothing else. His aim had been to make himself unworthy of any destiny — 
incapable of any mission — far too ill to travel. He had succeeded to a shocking degree. 
"Oh, it was quite a show," said the woman. "You were having as good a time as 
anybody, 
helping shove the piano in the pool. Then, when it finally went in, you got this big crying jag." 
"Crying jag," echoed Constant. That was something new. 
"Yah," said the woman. "You said you had a very unhappy childhood, and made everybody 
listen to how unhappy it was. How your father never even threw a ball to you once — any kind 
of ball. Half the time nobody could understand you, but every time somebody could understand 
you, it was about how there never was any kind of ball. 
"Then you talked about your mother," said the woman, "and you said if she was a whore, then 
you were proud to be a son of a whore, if that's what a whore was. Then you said you'd give an 
oil well to any woman who'd come up to you and shake your hand and say real loud, so 
everybody could hear, 'I'm a whore, just like your mother was.'" "What happened then?" said Constant. 
"You gave an oil well to every woman at the party," said the woman. "And then you started 
crying worse than ever, and you picked me out, and you told everybody I was the only person in 
the whole Solar System you could trust. You said everybody else was just waiting for you to fall 
asleep, so they could put you on a rocket ship and shoot you at Mars. Then you 
made everybody go home but me. Servants and everybody. 
"Then we flew down to Mexico and got married, and then we came back here," she said. 
"Now I find out you haven't got a pot to piss in or a window to throw it out of. You better go 
down to the office and find out what the hell is going on, on account of my boyfriend is a 
gangster, and he'll kill you if I tell him you aren't providing for me right. 
"Hell," she said, "I had an unhappier childhood than you did. My mother was a whore and my 
father never came home, either — but we were poor besides. At least you had billions of 
dollars." 
In Newport, Beatrice Rumfoord turned her back to her husband. She stood on the threshold of 
Skip's Museum, facing the corridor. Down the corridor came the sound of the butler's voice. The 
butler was standing in the front doorway, calling to Kazak, the hound of space. 
"I know a little something about roller coasters, too," Beatrice said. 
"That's good," said Rumfoord emptily. 
"When I was ten years old," said Beatrice, "my father got it into his head that it would be fun 
for me to ride a roller coaster. We were summering on Cape Cod, and we drove over to an 
amusement park outside of Fall River. "He bought two tickets on the roller coaster. He was going to ride with me. 
"I took one look at the roller coaster," said Beatrice, "and it looked silly and dirty and 
dangerous, and I simply refused to get on. My own father couldn't make me get on," said 
Beatrice, "even though he was Chairman of the Board of the New York Central Railroad. 
"We turned around and came home," said Beatrice proudly. Her eyes glittered, and she nodded 
abruptly. "That's the way to treat roller coasters," she said. 
She stalked out of Skip's Museum, went to the foyer to await the arrival of Kazak. 
In a moment, she felt the electric presence of her husband behind her. 
"Bea — " he said, "if I seem indifferent to your misfortunes, it's only because I know how well 
things are going to turn out in the end. If it seems crude of me not to hate the idea of your pairing 
off with Constant, it's only an humble admission on my part that he's going to make you a far 
better husband than I ever was or will be. 
"Look forward to being really in love for the first time, Bea," said Rumford. "Look forward to 
behaving aristocratically without any outward proofs of your aristocracy. Look forward to 
having nothing but the dignity and intelligence and tenderness that God gave you 
— look 
forward to taking those materials and nothing else, and making something exquisite with them." 
Rumfoord groaned tinnily. He was becoming insubstantial. "Oh, God — " he said, "you talk 
about roller coasters — 
"Stop and think sometime about the roller coaster I'm on. Some day on Titan, it will be 
revealed to you just how ruthlessly I've been used, and by whom, and to what disgustingly paltry 
ends." 
Kazak now flung himself into the house, flews flapping. He landed skidding on the polished 
floor. 
He ran in place, trying to make a right-angle turn in Beatrice's direction. Faster and faster he 
ran, and still he could get no traction. He became translucent. 
He began to shrink, to fizz crazily on the foyer floor like a ping-pong ball in a frying pan 
Then he disappeared. There was no dog any more. Without looking behind, Beatrice knew that her husband had disappeared, too. 
"Kazak?" she said faintly. She snapped her fingers, as though to attract a dog. Her fingers were 
too weak to make a sound. "Nice doggy," she whispered. 
CHAPTER THREE UNITED HOTCAKE PREFERRED 
"Son — they say there isn't any royalty in this country, but do you want me to tell you how to be king of the United States of America? Just fall through the hole in a privy and come out smelling like a rose." 
— NOEL CONSTANT 
Magnum Opus, the Los Angeles Corporation that managed Malachi Constant's financial affairs, 
was founded by Malachi's father. It had a thirty-one-story building for its home. While Magnum 
Opus owned the whole building, it used only the top three floors, renting out the rest to 
corporations it controlled. 
Some of these corporations, having been sold recently by Magnum Opus, were moving out. 
Others, having been bought recently by Magnum Opus, were moving in. 
Among the tenants were Galactic Spacecraft, Moon-Mist Tobacco, Fandango Petroleum, 
Lennox Mono — rail, Fry-Kwik, Sani-Maid Pharmaceuticals, Lewis and Marvin Sulfur, Dupree 
Electronics, Universal Piezoelectric, Psychokinesis Unlimited, Ed Muir Associates, Max-Mor 
Machine Tools, Wilkinson Paint and Varnish, American Levitation, Flo-Fast, King O'Leisure 
Shirts, and the Emblem Supreme Casualty and Life Assurance Company of California. 
The Magnum Opus Building was a slender, prismatic, twelve-sided shaft, faced on all twelve 
sides with blue-green glass that shaded to rose at the base. The twelve sides were said by the 
architect to represent the twelve great religions of the world. So far, no one had asked the 
architect to name them. 
That was lucky, because he couldn't have done it. 
There was a private heliport on top. 
The shadow and flutter of Constant's helicopter settling to the heliport seemed to many of the 
people below to be like the shadow and flutter of the Bright Angel of Death. It seemed that way 
because of the stock-market crash, because money and jobs were so scarce — 
And it seemed especially that way to them because the things that had crashed the hardest, that 
had pulled everything down with them, were the enterprises of Malachi Constant. 
Constant was flying his own helicopter, since all his servants had quit the night before. 
Constant was flying it badly. He set it down with a crash that sent shivers through the building. 
He was arriving for a conference with Ransom K. Fern, President of Magnum Opus. 
Fern waited for Constant on the thirty-first floor — a single, vast room that was Constant's 
office. 
The office was spookily furnished, since none of the furniture had legs. Everything was 
suspended magnetically at the proper height. The tables and the desk and the bar and the couches 
were floating slabs. The chairs were tilted, floating bowls. And most eerie of all, pencils and 
pads were scattered at random through the air, ready to be snatched by anyone who had an idea 
worth writing down. 
The carpet was as green as grass for. the simple reason that it was grass — living grass as lush 
as any putting green. 
Malachi Constant sank from the heliport deck to his office in a private elevator. When the 
elevator door whispered open, Constant was startled by the legless furnishings, by the floating 
pencils and pads. He had not been in his office for eight weeks. Somebody had refurnished the 
place. 
Ransom K. Fern, aging President of Magnum Opus, stood at a floor-to-ceiling window, 
looking out over the city. He wore his black Homburg hat and his black Chesterfield coat. He 
carried his whangee walking stick at port arms. He was exceedingly thin — always had been. 
"A butt like two beebees," Malachi Constant's father Noel had said of Fern. "Ransom K. Fern 
is like a camel who has burned up both his humps, and now he's burning up everything else but 
his hair and eyeballs." 
According to figures released by the Bureau of Internal Revenue, Fern was the highest-paid 
executive in the country. He had a salary of a flat million dollars a year — plus stock-option 
plans and cost-of-living adjustments. 
He had joined Magnum Opus when he was twenty-two years old. He was sixty now. 
"Some — somebody's changed all the furniture," said Constant. 
"Yes," said Fern, still looking out over the city, "somebody changed it." 
"You?" said Constant. 
Fern sniffed, took his time about answering. "I thought we ought to demonstrate our loyalty to 
some of our own products." 
"I — I never saw anything like it," said Constant. "No legs — just floating in air." 
"Magnetism, you know," said Fern. 
"Why — why I think it looks wonderful, now that I'm getting used to it," said Constant. "And 
some company we own makes this stuff?" 
"American Levitation Company," said Fern. "You said to buy it, so we bought it." 
Ransom K. Fern turned away from the window. His face was a troubling combination of youth 
and age. There was no sign in the face of any intermediate stages in the aging process, no hint of 
the man of thirty or forty or fifty who had been left behind. Only adolescence and the age of 
sixty were represented. It was as though a seventeen-year-old had been withered and bleached by 
a blast of heat. 
Fern read two books a day. It has been said that Aristotle was the last man to be familiar with 
the whole of his own culture. Ransom K. Fern had made an impressive attempt to equal 
Aristotle's achievement. He had been somewhat less successful than Aristotle in perceiving 
patterns in what he knew. 
The intellectual mountain had labored to produce a philosophical mouse — and Fern was the 
first to admit that it was a mouse, and a mangy mouse at that. As Fern expressed the philosophy 
conversationally, in its simplest terms: 
"You go up to a man, and you say, 'How are things going, Joe?' And he says, 'Oh, fine, fine — 
couldn't be better.' And you look into his eyes, and you see things really couldn't be much worse. 
When you get right down to it, everybody's having a perfectly lousy time of it, and I mean 
everybody. And the hell of it is, nothing seems to help much." 
This philosophy did not sadden him. It did not make him brood. 
It made him heartlessly watchful. 
It helped in business, too — for it let Fern assume automatically that the other fellow was far 
weaker and. far more bored than he seemed. 
Sometimes, too, people with strong stomachs, found Fern's murmured asides funny. 
His situation, working for Noel Constant and then Malachi, conspired nicely to make almost 
anything he might say bitterly funny — for he was superior to Constant pére and fils in every 
respect but one, and the respect excepted was the only one that really mattered. The Constants — 
ignorant, vulgar, and brash — had copious quantities of dumb luck. Or had had up to now. 
Malachi Constant had still to get it through his head that his luck was gone — every bit of it. 
He had still to get it through his head, despite the hideous news Fern had given him on the 
telephone. 
"Gee," said Constant ingenuously, "the more I look at this furniture, the more I like it. This 
stuff should sell like hotcakes." There was something pathetic and repellent about Malachi 
Constant's talking business. It had been the same with his father. Old Noel Constant had never 
known anything about business, and neither had his son — and what little charm the Constants 
had evaporated the instant they pretended that their successes depended on their knowing their 
elbows from third base. 
There was something obscene about a billionaire's being optimistic and aggressive and 
cunning. 
"If you ask me," said Constant, "that was a pretty sound investment — a company that makes 
furniture like this." 
"United Hotcake preferred," said Fern. United Hotcake preferred was a favorite joke of his. 
Whenever people came to him, begging for investment advice that would double their money in 
six weeks, he advised them gravely to invest in this fictitious stock. Some people actually tried to 
follow his advice. "Sitting on an American Levitation couch is harder than standing up in a 
birchbark canoe," 
said Fern dryly. "Throw yourself into one of these so-called chairs, and it will bounce you off the 
wall like a stone Out of a slingshot. Sit on the edge of your desk, and it will waltz you around the 
room like a Wright brother at Kitty Hawk." 
Constant touched his desk ever so lightly. It shuddered nervously. 
"Well — they still haven't got all of the bugs out of it, that's all," said Constant. 
"Truer words were never spoken," said Fern. 
Constant now made a plea that he had never had to make before. "A guy is entitled to a 
mistake now and then," he said. 
"Now and then?" said Fern, raising his eyebrows. "For three months you have made nothing 
but wrong decisions, and you've done what I would have said was impossible. You've succeeded 
in more than wiping out the results of almost forty years of inspired guessing." 
Ransom K. Fern took a pencil from the air and broke it in two. "Magnum Opus is no more. 
You and I are the last two people in the building. Everyone else has been paid off and sent 
home." 
He bowed and moved toward the door. "The switchboard has been arranged so that all 
incoming calls will come directly to your desk here. And when you leave, Mr. 
Constant, sir, remember to turn out the lights and lock the front door." A history of Magnum Opus, Inc., is perhaps in order at this point. 
Magnum Opus began as an idea in the head of a Yankee traveling salesman of copperbottomed cookware. That Yankee was Noel Constant, a native of New Bedford, Massachusetts. 
He was the father of Malachi. 
The father of Noel, in turn, was Sylvanus Constant, a loom fixer in the New Bedford Mills of 
the Nattaweena Division of the Grand Republic Woolen Company. He was an anarchist, though 
he never got into any trouble about it, except with his wife. 
The family could trace its line back through an illegitimacy to Benjamin Constant, who was a 
tribune under Napoleon from 1799 to 1801, and a lover of Anne Louise Germaine Necker, 
Baronne de Stael-Holstein, wife of the then Swedish ambassador to France. 
One night in Los Angeles, at any rate, Noel Constant got it into his head to become a 
speculator. He was thirty-nine at the time, single, physically and morally unattractive, and a 
business failure. The idea of becoming a speculator came to him as he sat all alone on a narrow 
bed in Room 223 of the Wilburhampton Hotel. 
The most valuable corporate structure ever to be owned by one man could not have had 
humbler headquarters in the beginning. Room 223 of the Wilburhampton was eleven feet long 
and eight feet wide, and had neither telephone nor desk. 
What it did have was a bed, a three-drawer dresser, old newspapers lining the drawers, and, in 
the bottom drawer, a Gideon Bible. The newspaper page that lined the middle drawer was a page 
of stock-market quotations from fourteen years before. 
There is a riddle about a man who is locked in a room with nothing but a bed and a calendar, 
and the question is: How does he survive? 
The answer is: He eats dates from the calendar and drinks water from the springs of the bed. 
This comes very close to describing the genesis of Magnum Opus. The materials with which 
Noel Constant built his fortune were hardly more nourishing in themselves than calendar dates 
and bedsprings. 
Magnum Opus was built with a pen, a check book, some check-sized Government envelopes, 
a Gideon Bible, and a bank balance of eight thousand, two hundred and twelve dollars. 
The bank balance was Noel Constant's share in the estate of his anarchist father. The estate 
had consisted principally of Government bonds. And Noel Constant had an investment program. It was simplicity itself. The 
Bible would be his investment counselor. 
There are those who have concluded, after studying Noel Constant's investment pattern, that 
he was either a genius or had a superb system of industrial spies. 
He invariably picked the stock market's most brilliant performers days or hours before their 
performances began. In twelve months, rarely leaving Room 223 in the Wilburhampton Hotel, he 
increased his fortune to a million and a quarter. Noel Constant did it without genius and without spies. 
His system was so idiotically simple that some people can't understand it, no matter how often 
it is explained. The people who can't understand it are people who have to believe, for their own 
peace of mind, that tremendous wealth can be produced only by tremendous cleverness. 
This was Noel Constant's system: 
He took the Gideon Bible that was in his room, and he started with the first sentence in 
Genesis, 
The first sentence in Genesis, as some people may know, is: "In the beginning God created the 
heaven and the earth." Noel Constant wrote the sentence in capital letters, put periods between 
the letters, divided the letters into pairs, rendering the sentence as follows: "I.N., T.H., E.B., 
E.G., I.N., N.I., N.G., G.O., D.C., R.E., A.T., E.D., T.H., E.H., E.A., V.E., N.A., N.D., T.H., 
E.E., A.R., T.H." 
And then he looked for corporations with those initials, and bought shares in them. His rule at 
the beginning was that he would own shares in only one corporation at a time, would invest his 
whole nest-egg in it, and would sell the instant the value of his shares had doubled. 
His very first investment was International Nitrate. After that came Trowbridge Helicopter, 
Electra Bakeries, Eternity Granite, Indiana Novelty, Norwich Iron, National Gelatin, Granada 
Oil, Del-Mar Creations, Richmond Electroplating,' Anderson Trailer, and Eagle Duplicating. 
His program for the next twelve months was this: Trowbridge Helicopter again, ELCO Hoist, 
Engineering Associates, Vickery Electronics, National Alum, National Dredging, Trowbridge 
Helicopter again. 
The third time he bought Trowbridge Helicopter, he didn't buy a piece of it. He bought the 
whole thing — lock, stock, and barrel. Two days after that, the company landed a long-term Government contract for 
intercontinental 
ballistic missiles, a contract that made the company worth, conservatively, fifty- nine million 
dollars. Noel Constant had bought the company for twenty-two million. 
The only executive decision he ever made relative to the company was contained in an order 
written on a picture postcard of the Wilburhampton Hotel. The card was addressed to the 
president of the company, telling him to change the name of the company to Galactic Spacecraft, 
Inc., since the company had long since outgrown both Trowbridges and helicopters. 
Small as this exercise of authority was, it was significant, for it showed that Constant had at 
last become interested in something he owned. And, though his holdings in the firm had more 
than doubled in value, he did not sell them all. He sold only forty-nine per cent of them. 
Thereafter, he continued to take the advice of his Gideon Bible, but he kept big pieces of any 
firm he really liked. 
During his first two years in Room 223 of the Wilburhampton, Noel Constant had only one 
visitor. That visitor did not know he was rich. His one visitor was a chambermaid named 
Florence Whitehill, who spent one night out of ten with him for a small, flat fee. 
Florence, like everyone else in the Wilburhampton, believed him when he said he was a trader 
in stamps. Personal hygiene was not Noel Constant's strongest Suit. It was easy to believe that 
his work brought him into regular contact with mucilage. 
The only people who knew how rich he was were employees of the Bureau of Internal 
Revenue and of the august accounting firm of Clough and Higgins. Then, after two years, Noel Constant received his second visitor in Room 223. 
The second visitor was a thin and watchful blue-eyed man of twenty-two. He engaged Noel 
Constant's serious attention by announcing that he was from the United States Bureau of Internal 
Revenue. 
Constant invited the young man into his room, motioned for him to sit on the bed. He himself 
remained standing. 
"They sent a child, did they?" said Noel Constant. The visitor was not offended. He turned the 
gibe to his own advantage, using it in an image of himself that was chilling indeed. "A child with 
a heart of stone and a mind as quick as a mongoose, Mr. Constant," he said. "I have also been to 
Harvard Business School." 
"That may be so," said Constant, "but I don't think you can hurt me. I don't owe the Federal 
Government a dime." 
The callow visitor nodded. "I know," he said. "I found everything in apple-pie order." 
The young man looked around the room. He wasn't surprised by its squalor. He was worldly 
enough to have expected something diseased. 
"I've been over your income-tax reports for the past two years," he said, "and, by my 
calculations, you are the luckiest man who ever lived." "Lucky?" said Noel Constant. 
"I think so," said the young visitor. "Don't you think so? For instance — what does ELCO 
Hoist Company manufacture?" "ELCO Hoist?" said Noel Constant blankly. 
"You owned fifty-three per cent of it for a period of two months," said the young visitor. 
"Why — hoists — things for lifting various articles," said Noel Constant stuffily. "And 
various allied products." 
The young visitor's smile made cat's whiskers under his nose. "For your information," he said, 
"ELCO Hoist Company was a name given by the Government in the last war to a top-secret 
laboratory that was developing underwater listening gear. After the war, it was sold' to private 
enterprise, and the name was never changed — since the work was still top secret, and the only 
customer was still the Government. 
"Suppose you tell me," said the young visitor, "what it was you learned about Indiana Novelty 
that made you think it was a shrewd investment? Did you think they made little party poppers 
with paper hats inside?" 
"I have to answer these questions for the Bureau of Internal Revenue?" said Noel Constant. "I 
have to describe every company I owned in detail, or I can't keep the money?" 
"I was simply asking for my own curiosity. From your reaction, I gather that you haven't the 
remotest idea what Indiana Novelty does. For your information, Indiana Novelty manufactures 
nothing, but holds certain key patents on tire-recapping machinery." 
"Suppose we get down to the Bureau of Internal Revenue business," said Noel Constant curtly. 
"I'm no longer with the Bureau," said the young visitor. "I resigned my one hundred-andfourteen-dollar-a-week job this morning in order to take a job making two thousand dollars a 
week." "Working for whom?" said Noel Constant. 
"Working for you," said the young man. He stood, held out his hand. "Ransom K. Fern is the 
name," he said. 
"I had a professor in the Harvard Business School," said young Fern to Noel Constant, "who 
kept telling me that I was smart, but that I would have to find my boy, if I was going to be rich. 
He wouldn't explain what he meant. He said I would catch on sooner or later. I asked him how I 
could go looking for my boy, and he suggested that I work for the Bureau of Internal Revenue 
for a year or so. 
"When I went over your tax returns, Mr. Constant, it suddenly came to me what it was he 
meant. He meant I was shrewd and thorough, but I wasn't remarkably lucky. I had to find 
somebody who had luck in an astonishing degree — and so I have." 
"Why should I pay you two thousand dollars a week?" said Noel Constant. "You see my 
facilities and my staff here, and you know what I've done with them." 
"Yes — " said Fern, "and I can show you where you should have made two hundred million 
where you made only fifty-nine. You know absolutely nothing about corporate law or tax law — 
or even commonsense business procedure." 
Fern thereupon proved this to Noel Constant, father of Malachi — and Fern showed him an 
organizational plan that had the name Magnum Opus, Incorporated. It was a marvelous engine 
for doing violence to the spirit of thousands of laws without actually running afoul of so much as 
a city ordinance. 
Noel Constant was so impressed by this monument to hypocrisy and sharp practice that he 
wanted to buy stock in it without even referring to his Bible. 
"Mr. Constant, sir," said young Fern, "don't you understand? Magnum Opus is you, with you 
as chairman of the board, with me as president. 
"Mr. Constant," he said, "right now you're as easy for the Bureau of Internal Revenue to watch 
as a man on a street corner selling apples and pears. But just imagine how hard you would be to 
watch if you had a whole office building jammed to the rafters with industrial bureaucrats — 
men who lose things and use the wrong forms and create new forms and demand everything in 
quintuplicate, and who understand perhaps a third of what is said to them; who habitually give 
misleading answers in order to gain time in which to think, who make decisions only when 
forced to, and who then cover their tracks; who make perfectly honest mistakes in addition and 
subtraction, who call meetings whenever they feel lonely, who write memos whenever they feel 
unloved; men who never throw anything away unless they think it could get 
them fired. A single 
industrial bureaucrat, if he is sufficiently vital and nervous, should be able to create a ton of 
meaningless papers a year for the Bureau of Internal Revenue to examine. In the Magnum Opus 
Building, we will have thousands of them! And you and I can have the top two stories, and you 
can go on keeping track of what's really going on the way you do now." He looked around the 
room. "How do you keep track now, by the way — writing with a burnt match on the margins of 
a telephone directory?" "In my head," said Noel Constant. 
"There is one more advantage I have yet to point out," said Fern. "Some day your luck is going 
to run out. And then you're going to need the shrewdest, most thorough manager you can hire — 
or you'll crash all the way back to pots and pans." 
"You're hired," said Noel Constant, father of Malachi. 
"Now, where should we erect the building?" said Fern. 
"I own this hotel, and this hotel owns the lot across the street," said Noel Constant. "Build it 
on the lot across the Street." He held up an index finger as crooked as a crankshaft. "There's just 
one thing — " 
"Yes, sir?" said Fern. "I'm not moving into it," said Noel Constant. "I'm staying right here." 
Those who want more detailed histories of Magnum Opus, Inc., can go to their public libraries 
and ask for either Lavina Waters' romantic Too Wild a Dream? or Crowther Gomburg's harsh 
Primordial Scales. Miss Waters' volume, while fuddled as to business details, contains the better 
account of the 
chambermaid Florence Whitehill's discovery that she was pregnant by Noel Constant, and her 
discovery that Noel Constant was a multi-multi-millionaire. 
Noel Constant married the chambermaid,, gave her a mansion and a checking account with a 
million dollars in it. He told her to name the child Malachi if it was a boy, and Prudence if it was 
a girl. He asked her to please keep coming to see him once every ten days in Room 223 of the 
Wilburhampton Hotel, but not to bring the baby. 
Gomburg's book, while first-rate on business details, suffers from Gomburg's central thesis, to 
the effect that Magnum Opus was a product of a complex of inabilities to love. Reading between 
the lines of Gomburg's book, it is increasingly clear that Gomburg is himself unloved and unable 
to love. 
Neither Miss Waters nor Gomburg, incidentally, discovered Noel Constant's investment 
method. Ransom K. Fern never discovered it either, though he tried hard enough. 
The only person Noel Constant ever told was his son, Malachi, on Malachi's twenty-first 
birthday. That birthday party of two took place in Room 223 of the Wilburhampton. It was the 
first time father and son had ever met. Malachi had come to see Noel by invitation. 
Human emotions being what they are, young Malachi Constant paid more attention to a detail 
in the room's furnishings than he did to the secret of how to make millions or even billions of 
dollars. 
The money-making secret was so simple-minded to begin with, that it didn't require much 
attention. The most complicated part of it had to do with the manner in which young Malachi 
was to pick up the torch of Magnum Opus when Noel had, at long last, laid it down. Young 
Malachi was to ask Ransom K. Fern for a chronological list of the investments of Magnum Opus, 
and, reading down the margin, young Malachi would learn just how far otd Noel had gone in the 
Bible, and where young Malachi should begin. The detail in the furnishings of Room 223 that interested young Malachi so was 
a photograph 
of himself. It was a photograph of himself at the age of three — a photograph of a sweet, 
pleasant, game little boy on an ocean beach. 
It was thumbtacked to the wall. 
It was the only picture in the room. 
Old Noel saw young Malachi looking at the picture, and was confused and embarrassed by the 
whole thing about fathers and sons. He ransacked his mind for something good to. say, and 
found almost nothing. 
"My father gave me only two pieces of advice," he said, "and only one of them has stood the 
test of time. They were: 'Don't touch your principal,' and 'Keep the liquor bottle out of the 
bedroom.'" His embarrassment and confusion were now too great to be borne. "Good-by," he 
said abruptly. "Good-by?" said young Malachi, startled. He moved toward the door. 
"Keep the liquor bottle out of the bedroom," said the old man, and he turned his back. 
"Yes, sir, I will," said young Malachi. "Good-by, sir," he said, and he left. That was the first and last time that Malachi Constant ever saw his father. His father lived for five more years, and the Bible never played him false. 
Noel Constant died just as he reached the end of this sentence: "And God made two great 
lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars 
also." His last investment was in Sonnyboy Oil at 17 1/4. 
The son took over where the father had left off, though Malachi Constant did not move into 
Room 223 in the Wilburhampton. 
And, for five years, the luck of the son was as sensational as the luck of the father had been. 
And now, suddenly, Magnum Opus lay in ruins. 
There in his office, with the floating furniture and the grass carpet, Malachi Constant still 
could not believe that his luck had run out. 
"Nothing left?" he said faintly. He managed to smile at Ransom K. Fern. "Come on, guy — I 
mean there's got to be something left." 
"I thought so, too, at ten o'clock this morning," said Fern. "I was congratulating myself on 
having buttressed Magnum Opus against any conceivable blow. We were weathering the 
depression quite nicely — yes, and your mistakes, too. 
"And then, at ten-fifteen, I was visited by a lawyer who was apparently at your party last 
night. You, apparently, were giving away oil wells last night, and the lawyer was thoughtful 
enough to draw up documents which, if signed by you, would be binding. They were signed by 
you. You gave away five hundred and thirty-one producing oil wells last night, which wiped out 
Fandango Petroleum. 
"At eleven," said Fern, "the President of the United States announced that Galactic Spacecraft, 
which we had sold, was receiving a three-billion contract for the New Age of Space. 
"At eleven-thirty," said Fern, "I was given a copy of The Journal of the American Medical 
Association, which was marked by our public relations director, 'FYI.' These three letters, as you 
would know if you had ever spent any time in your office, mean 'for your information.' I turned 
to the page referred to, and learned, for my information, that MoonMist Cigarettes were not a 
cause but the principal cause of sterility in both sexes wherever MoonMist cigarettes were sold. 
This fact was discovered not by human beings but by a computing machine. Whenever data 
about cigarette smoking was fed into it, the machine grew tremendously excited, and no one 
could figure out why. The machine was obviously trying to tell its operators something. It did 
everything it could to express itself, and finally managed to get its operators to ask it the right 
questions. 
"The right questions had to do with the relationship of MoonMist Cigarettes to human 
reproduction. The relationship was this: 
"People who smoked MoonMist Cigarettes couldn't have children, even if they wanted them," 
said Fern. 
"Doubtless," said Fern, "there are gigolos and party girls and New Yorkers who are grateful 
for this relief from biology. In the opinion of the Legal Department of Magnum Opus, before that 
department was liquidated, however, there are several million persons who can sue successfully 
— on the grounds that Moon-Mist Cigarettes did them out of something rather valuable. Pleasure 
in depth, indeed. 
"There are approximately ten million ex-smokers of MoonMist in this country," said Fern, "all 
sterile. If one in ten sues you for damages beyond price, sues you for the modest sum of five 
thousand dollars — the bill will be five billion dollars, excluding legal fees. And you haven't got 
five billion dollars. Since the stock-market crash and your acquisition of such properties as 
American Levitation, you aren't worth even five hundred million. 
"MoonMist Tobacco," said Fern, "that's you. Magnum Opus," said Fern, "that's you, too. All 
the things you are are going to be sued and sued successfully. And, while the litigants may not be 
able to get blood from turnips, they can certainly ruin the turnips in the process of trying." 
Fern bowed again. "I now perform my last official duty, which is to inform you that your 
father wrote you a letter which was to be given to you only if your luck turned for the worse. My 
instructions were to place that letter under the pillow in Room 223 in the Wilburhampton, if your 
luck ever really turned sour. I placed the letter under the pillow an hour ago. 
"And I will now, as an humble and loyal corporate servant, ask you for one small favor," said 
Fern. "If the letter seems to cast the vaguest light on what life might be about, I would appreciate 
your telephoning me at home." 
Ransom K. Fern saluted by touching the shaft of his cane to his Homburg hat. "Good-by, Mr. 
Magnum Opus, Jr. Good-by." 
The Wilburhampton Hotel was a frumpish, three-story Tudor structure across the street from 
the Magnum Opus Building, standing in relation to that build-jug like an unmade bed at the feet 
of the Archangel Gabriel. Pine slats were tacked to the stucco exterior of the hotel, simulating 
half-timbered construction. The backbone of the roof had been broken intentionally, simulating 
great age. The eaves were plump and low, tucked under, simulated thatch. The windows were 
tiny, with diamond-shaped panes. The hotel's small cocktail lounge was known as the Hear Ye Room. 
In the Hear Ye Room were three people — a bartender and two customers. The two customers 
were a thin woman and a fat man — both seemingly old. Nobody in the Wilburhampton had ever 
seen them before, but it already seemed as though they had been sitting in the Hear Ye Room for 
years. Their protective coloration was perfect, for they looked half-timbered and broken-backed 
and thatched and little-windowed, too. 
They claimed to be pensioned-off teachers from the same high school in the Middle West. The 
fat man introduced himself as George M. Helmholtz, a former bandmaster. The thin woman 
introduced herself as Roberta Wiley, a former teacher of algebra. 
They had obviously discovered the consolations of alcohol and cynicism late in life. They 
never ordered the same drink twice, were avid to know what was in this bottle and what was in 
that one — to know what a golden dawn punch was, and a Helen Twelvetrees, and a plui d'or, 
and a merry widow fizz. 
The bartender knew they weren't alcoholics. He was familiar with the type, and loved the type: 
they were simply two Saturday Evening Post characters at the end of the road. When they weren't asking questions about the different things to drink, they 
were 
indistinguishable from millions of other American barflies on the first day of the New Age of 
Space. They sat solidly on their barstools, staring straight ahead at the ranks of bottles. Their lips 
moved constantly — experimenting dismayingly with irrelevant grins and grimaces and sneers. 
Evangelist Bobby Denton's image of Earth as God's space ship was an apt one — particularly 
with reference to barflies. Helmholtz and Miss Wiley were behaving like pilot and co-pilot of an 
enormously pointless voyage through space that was expected to take forever. It was easy to 
believe that they had begun the voyage nattily, flushed with youth and technical training, and 
that the bottles before them were the instruments they had been watching for years and years and 
years. It was easy to believe that each day had found the space boy and the space girl 
microscopically more slovenly than the day before, until now, when they were the shame of the 
Pan-Galactic Space Service. 
Two buttons on Helmholtz's fly were open. There was shaving cream in his left ear. His socks 
did not match. 
Miss Wiley was a crazy-looking little old lady with a lantern jaw. She wore a frizzy black wig 
that looked as though it had been nailed to a farmer's barn door for years. 
"I see where the President has ordered a whole brand-new Age of Space to begin, to see if that 
won't help the unemployment picture some," said the bartender. "Uh, huh," said Helmholtz and Miss Wiley simultaneously. 
Only an observant and suspicious person would have noticed a false note in the behavior of 
the two: Helmholtz and Miss Wiley were too interested in time. For people who had nothing 
much to do and nowhere much to go, they were extraordinarily interested in their watches — 
Miss Wiley in her mannish wrist watch, Mr. Helmholtz in his gold pocket watch, 
The truth of the matter was that Helmholtz and Miss Wiley weren't retired school teachers at 
all. They were both males, both masters of disguise. They were crack agents for the Army of 
Mars, the eyes and ears for a Martian press gang that hovered in a flying saucer two hundred 
miles overhead, Malachi Constant didn't know it, but they were waiting for him. 
Helmholtz and Wiley did not accost Malachi Constant when he crossed the Street to the 
Wilburhampton. They gave no sign that he mattered to them. They let him cross the lobby and 
board the elevator without giving him a glance. 
They did, however, glance at their watches again — and an observant and suspicious person 
would have noticed that Miss Wiley pressed a button on her watch, starting a stopwatch hand on 
its twitching rounds. 
Helmholtz and Miss Wiley were not about to use violence on Malachi Constant. They had 
never used violence on anyone, and had still recruited fourteen thousand persons for Mars. 
Their usual technique was to dress like civil engineers and offer not-quite-bright men and 
women nine dollars an hour, tax free, plus food and shelter and transportation, to work on a 
secret Government project in a remote part of the world for three years. It was a joke between 
Helmholtz and Miss Wiley that they had never specified what government was organizing the 
project, and that no recruit had ever thought to ask. Ninety-nine per cent of the recruits were given amnesia upon arriving on Mars. 
Their 
memories were cleaned out by mental-health experts, and Martian. surgeons installed radio 
antennas in their skulls in order that the recruits might be radio-controlled. 
And then the recruits were given new names in the most haphazard fashion, and were assigned 
to the factories, the construction gangs, the administrative staff, or to the Army of Mars. 
The few recruits who were not treated in this way were those who demonstrated ardently that 
they would serve Mars heroically without being doctored at all. Those lucky few were welcomed 
into the secret circle of those in command. 
Secret agents Helmholtz and Wiley belonged to this circle. They were in full possession of 
their memories, and they were not radio-controlled. They adored their work, just as they were. 
"What's that there Slivovitz like?" Helmholtz asked the bartender, squinting at a dusty bottle 
on the bottom row. He had just finished a sloe gin rickey. 
"I didn't even know we had it," said the bartender. He put the bottle on the bar, tilting it away 
from himself so he could read the label. "Prune brandy," he said. "Believe I'll try that next," said Helmholtz. 
Ever since the death of Noel Constant, Room 223 in the Wilburhampton had been left empty 
— as a memorial. 
Malachi Constant now let himself into Room 223. He had not been in the room since the death 
of his father. He closed the door behind him, and found the letter under the pillow. 
Nothing in the room had been changed but the linen. The picture of Malachi as a little boy on 
the beach was still the only picture on the wall. 
The letter said: 
Dear Son: Something big and bad has happened to you or you wouldn't be reading this letter. 
I am writing this letter to tell you to calm down about the bad things and kind of look around and 
see if something good or something important anyway happened on account of we got so rich 
and then lost the boodle again. What I want you to try and find out is, is there anything special 
going on or is it all just as crazy as it looked to me? 
If I wasn't a very good father or a very good anything that was because I was as good as dead 
'for a long time before I died. Nobody loved me and I wasn't very good at anything and I couldn't 
find any hobbies I liked and I was sick and tired of selling pots and pans and watching television 
so I was as good as dead and I was too far gone to ever come back. That is when I started the business with the Bible and you know what happened 
after that. It 
looked as though somebody or something wanted me to own the whole planet even though I was 
as good as dead. I kept my eyes open for some kind of signal that would tell me what it was all 
about but there wasn't any signal. I just went on getting richer and richer. 
And then your mother sent me that picture of you on the beach and the way you looked at me 
out of that picture made me think maybe you were what all the big money buildup was for. I 
decided I would die without ever seeing any sense to it and maybe you would be the one who 
would all of a sudden see everything clear as a bell. I tell you even a half-dead man hates to be 
alive and not be able to see any sense to it. 
The reason I told Ransom K. Fern to give you this letter only if your luck turned bad is that 
nobody thinks or notices anything as long as his luck is good. Why should he? 
So have a look around for me, boy. And if you go broke and somebody comes along with a 
crazy pro position my advice is to take it. You might just learn something when you're in a mood 
to learn something. The only thing I ever learned was that some people are lucky and other 
people aren't and not even a graduate of the Harvard Business School can say why. 
Yours truly — your Pa 
There was a knock on the door of Room 223. The door opened before Constant could reply to the knock. 
Helmholtz and Miss Wiley let themselves in. They entered at precisely the right instant, 
having been advised by their superiors as to when, to the second, Malachi Constant would finish 
the letter. They had been told, too, precisely what to say to him. 
Miss Wiley removed her wig, revealing herself to be a scrawny man, and Helmholtz 
composed his features to reveal that he was fearless and used to command. 
"Mr. Constant," said Helmholtz, "I am here to inform you that the planet Mars is not only 
populated, but populated by a large and efficient and military and industrial society. It has been 
recruited from Earth, with the recruits being transferred to Mars by flying saucer. We are now 
prepared to offer you a direct lieutenant-colonelcy in the Army of Mars. 
"Your situation on Earth is hopeless. Your wife is a beast. Moreover, our intelligence informs 
us that here on Earth you will not only be made penniless by civil suits, but that you will be 
imprisoned for criminal negligence as well. 
"In addition to a pay scale and privileges well above those accorded lieutenant- colonels in 
Earthling armies, we can offer you immunity from all Earthling legal harassment, and an 
opportunity to see a new and interesting planet, and an opportunity to think about your native 
planet from a fresh and beautifully detached viewpoint." 
"If you accept the commission," said Miss Wiley, "raise your left hand and repeat after me — 
" 
On the following day, Malachi Constant's helicopter was found empty in the middle of the 
Mojave Desert. The footprints of a man led away from it for a distance of forty feet, then 
stopped. 
It was as though Malachi Constant had walked forty feet, and had then dissolved into thin air. 
On the following Tuesday, the space ship known as The Whale was rechristened The 
Rumfoord and was readied for firing. Beatrice Rumfoord smugly watched the ceremonies on a television set two 
thousand miles 
away. She was still in Newport. The Rumfoord was going to be fired in exactly one minute. If 
destiny was going to get Beatrice Rumfoord on board, it was going to have to do it in one hell of 
a hurry. Beatrice was feeling marvelous. She had proved so many good things. She had 
proved that she 
was mistress of her own fate, could say no whenever she pleased — and make it stick. She had 
proved that her husband's omniscient bullying was all a bluff — that he wasn't much better at 
forecasts than the United States Weather Bureau. 
She had, moreover, worked out a plan that would enable her to live in modest comfort for the 
rest of her days, and would, at the same time, give her husband the treatment he deserved. The 
next time he materialized, he would find the estate teeming with gawkers. Beatrice was going to 
charge them five dollars a head to come in through the Alice-in-Wonderland door. 
This was no pipe dream. She had discussed it with two supposed representatives of the 
mortgage-holders on the estate — and they were enthusiastic. They were with her now, watching the preparations for the firing of The 
Rumfoord on television. The television set was in the same room with the huge painting of 
Beatrice as an 
immaculate little girl in white, with a white pony all her own. Beatrice smiled up at the painting. 
The little girl had yet to get the least bit soiled. 
The television, announcer now began the last minute's countdown for the firing of The 
Rumfoord. During the countdown, Beatrice's mood was birdlike. She could not sit still and 
she could not 
keep quiet. Her restlessness was a result of happiness, not of suspense. It was a matter of 
indifference to her whether The Rumfoord was a fizzle or not. Her two visitors, on the other hand, seemed to take the firing very seriously — 
seemed to be 
praying for the success of the shot. They were a man and a woman, a Mr. George M. Helmholtz 
and his secretary, a Miss Roberta Wiley. Miss Wiley was a funny-looking little old thing, but 
very alert and witty. 
The rocket went up with a roar. 
It was a flawless shot. 
Helmholtz sat back and heaved a manly sigh of relief. Then he smiled and beat his thick thighs 
exuberantly. "By glory — " he said, "I'm proud to be an American — and proud to be living in 
the time I do." "Would you like something to drink?" said Beatrice.' 
"Thank you very much — " said Helmholtz, "but I daren't mix business with pleasure." 
"Isn't the business all over?" said Beatrice. "Haven't we discussed everything?" "Well — Miss Wiley and I had hoped to take an inventory of the larger buildings 
on the 
grounds," said Helmholtz, "but I'm afraid it's gotten quite dark. Are there floodlights?" 
Beatrice shook her head. "Sorry," she said. "Perhaps you have a powerful flashlight?" said Helmholtz. 
"I can probably get you a flashlight," said Beatrice, "but I don't think it's really necessary for 
you to go out there. I can tell you what all the buildings are." She rang for the butler, told him to 
bring a flashlight. "There's the tennis house, the greenhouse, the gardener's cottage, what used to 
be the gate house, the carriage house, the guest house, the tool shed, the bath house, the kennel, 
and the old water tower." 
"Which one is the new one?" said Helmholtz. 
"The new one?" said Beatrice. 
The butler returned with a flashlight, which Beatrice gave to Helmholtz. 
"The metal one," said Miss Wiley. 
"Metal?" said Beatrice puzzled. "There aren't any metal buildings. Maybe some of the 
weathered shingles have kind of a silvery look." She frowned. "Did somebody tell you there was 
a metal building here?" 
"We saw it when we came in," said Helmholtz. "Right by the path — in the undergrowth near 
the fountain," said Miss Wiley. 
"I can't imagine," said Beatrice. 
"Could we go out and have a look?" said Helmholtz. 
"Yes — of course," said Beatrice, rising. 
The party of three crossed the zodiac on the foyer floor, moved into the balmy dark. 
The flashlight beam danced before them. "Really — " said Beatrice, "I'm as curious to find out 
what it is as you are." 
"It looks like kind of a prefabricated thing made out of aluminum," said Miss Wiley. 
"It looks like a mushroom-shaped water tank or something," said Helmholtz, "only it is 
squatting right on the ground." 
"Really?" said Beatrice. 
"You know what I said it was, don't you?" said Miss Wiley. 
"No — " said Beatrice, "what did you say it was?" 
"I have to whisper," said Miss Wiley playfully, "or somebody will want to lock me up in the 
crazy house." She put her hand to her mouth, directing her loud whisper to Beatrice. "Flying 
saucer," she said. 
CHAPTER FOUR 
TENT RENTALS 
Rented a tent, a tent, a tent; 
Rented a tent, a tent, a tent. 
Rented a tent! 
Rented a tent! 
Rented a, rented a tent. 
— SNARE DRUM ON MARS 
The men had marched to the parade ground to the sound of a snare drum. The snare drum had 
this to say to them: 
Rented a tent, a tent, a tent; Rented a tent, a tent, a tent. Rented a tent! Rented a tent! 
Rented a, rented a tent. 
They were an infantry division of ten thousand men, formed in a hollow square on a natural 
parade ground of solid iron one mile thick. The soldiers stood at attention on orange rust. They 
shivered rigidly, being as much like iron as they could be — both officers anti men. Their 
uniforms were a rough-textured, frosty green — the color of lichens. 
The army had come to attention in utter silence. No audible or visible signal had been given. 
They had come to attention as a man, as though through a stupendous coincidence. 
The third man in the second squad of the first platoon of the second company of the third 
battalion of the second regiment of the First Martian Assault Infantry Division was a private who 
had been broken from lieutenant-colonel three years before. He had been on Mars for eight 
years. 
When a man in a modern army is broken from field grade to private, it is likely that he will be 
old for a private, and that his comrades in arms, once they get used to the fact that he isn't an 
officer any more, will, out of respect for his failing legs, eyes, and wind, call him something like 
Pops, or Gramps, or Unk. The third man in the second squad of the first platoon of the second company in 
the third battalion of the second regiment of the First Martian Assault Infantry Division 
was called Unk. Unk was forty years old. Unk was a well-made man — a light heavyweight, 
dark-skinned, with poet's lips, with soft brown eyes in the shaded caves of a Cro-Magnon brow 
ridge. Incipient 
baldness had isolated a dramatic scalplock. 
An illustrative anecdote about Unk: 
One time, when Unk's platoon was taking a shower, Henry Brackman, Unk's platoon sergeant, 
asked a sergeant from another regiment to pick out the best soldier in the platoon. The visiting 
sergeant, without any hesitation, picked Unk, because Unk was a compact, nicely muscled, 
intelligent man among boys. 
Brackman rolled his eyes. "Jesus — you'd think so, wouldn't you?" he said. "That's the platoon 
f — kup." "You kidding me?" said the visiting sergeant. 
"Hell no, I ain't kidding you," said Brackman. "Look at him — been standing there for ten 
minutes, and hasn't touched a piece of soap yet. Unk! Wake up, Unk!" 
Unk shuddered, stopped dreaming under the tepid drizzle of the shower head. He looked 
questioningly at Brackman, bleakly co-operative. "Use some soap, Unk!" said Brackman. "For Chrissakes, use some soap!" 
Now, on the iron parade ground, Unk stood at attention in the hollow square like all the rest. 
In the middle of the hollow square was a stone post with iron rings fixed to it. Chains had been 
drawn rattling through the rings — had been drawn tight around a red-haired soldier standing 
against a post. The soldier was a clean soldier — but he was not a neat soldier, for all the badges 
and decorations had been stripped off his uniform, and he had no belt, no necktie, no snow-white 
puttees. 
Everybody else, including Unk, was all spiffed up. Everybody else looked very nice indeed. 
Something painful was going to happen to the man at the stake — something from which the 
man would want to escape very much, something from which he was not going to escape, 
because of the chains. 
And all the soldiers were going to watch. 
The event was being given great importance. 
Even the man at the stake was standing at attention, being the best soldier he knew how to be, 
under the circumstances. 
Again — no audible or visible order was given, but the ten thousand soldiers executed the 
movement of parade rest as a man. So did the man at the stake. 
Then the soldiers relaxed in ranks, as though given the order at ease. Their obligations under 
this order were to relax, but to keep their feet in place, and to keep silent. The soldiers were free 
to think a little now, and to look around and to send messages with their eyes, if they had 
messages and could find receivers. 
The man at the stake tugged against his chains, craned his neck to judge the height of the stake 
to which he was chained. It was as though he thought he might escape by use of the scientific 
method, if only he could find out how high the stake was and what it was made of. 
The stake was nineteen feet, six and five thirty-seconds inches high, not counting the twelve 
feet, two and one-eighth inches of it embedded in the iron. The stake had a mean diameter of two 
feet, five and eleven third-seconds inches, varying from this mean, however, by as much as 
seven and one thirty-second inches. The stake was composed of quartz, alkali, feldspar, mica, 
and traces of tourmaline and hornblende. For the information of the man at the stake: He was one 
hundred and forty-two million, three hundred and forty-six thousand, nine hundred and eleven 
miles from the Sun, and help was not on its way. 
The red-haired man at the stake made no sound, because soldiers at ease were not permitted to 
make sounds. He sent a message with his eyes, however, to the effect that he would like to 
scream. He sent the message to anyone whose eyes would meet his. He was hoping to get the 
message to one person in particular, to his best friend — to Unk. He was looking for Unk. 
He couldn't find Unk's face. 
If he had found Unk's face, there wouldn't have been any blooming of recognition and pity on 
Unk's face. Unk had just come out of the base hospital, where he had been treated for mental 
illness, and Unk's mind was almost a blank. Unk didn't recognize his best friend at the stake. Unk 
didn't recognize anybody. Unk wouldn't have even known his own name was Unk, wouldn't even 
have known he was a soldier, if they hadn't told him so when they discharged him from the 
hospital. He had gone straight from the hospital to the formation he was in now. 
At the hospital they told him again and again and again that he was the best soldier in the best 
squad in the best platoon in the best company in the best battalion in the best regiment in the best 
division in the best army. Unk guessed that was something to be proud of. At the hospital they told him he had been a pretty sick boy, but he was fully 
recovered now. That seemed like good news. 
At the hospital they told him what his sergeant's name was, and what a sergeant was, and what 
all the symbols of ranks and grades and specialties were. 
They had blanked out so much of Unk's memory that they even had to teach him the foot 
movements and the manual of arms all over again. 
At the hospital they even had to explain to Unk what Combat Respiratory Rations or CRR's or 
goofballs were — had to tell him to take one every six hours or suffocate. These were oxygen 
pills that made up for the fact that there wasn't any oxygen in the Martian atmosphere. 
At the hospital they even had to explain to Unk that there was a radio antenna under the crown 
of his skull, and that it would hurt him whenever he did something a good soldier wouldn't ever 
do. The antenna also would give him orders and furnish drum music to march to. They said that 
not just Unk but everybody had an antenna like that — doctors and nurses and four-star generals 
included. It was a very democratic army, they said. 
Unk guessed that was a good way for an army to be. At the hospital they gave Unk a small 
sample of the pain his antenna would stick him with if he ever did anything 
wrong. The pain was horrible. 
Unk was bound to admit that a soldier would be crazy not to do his duty at all times. 
At the hospital they had said the most important rule of all was this one: Always obey a direct 
order without a moment's hesitation. 
Standing there in formation on the iron parade ground, Unk realized that he had a lot to 
relearn. At the hospital they hadn't taught him everything there was to know about living. 
The antenna in his head brought him to attention again and his mind went blank. Then the 
antenna put Unk at parade rest again, then at attention again, then made him give a rifle salute, 
then put him at ease again. His thinking began again. He caught another glimpse of the world around him. 
Life was like that, Unk told himself tentatively — blanks and glimpses, and now and then 
maybe that awful flash of pain for doing something wrong. 
A small, low-flying, fast-flying moon sailed in the violet sky overhead. Unk didn't know why 
he thought so, but he thought the moon was moving too fast. It didn't seem right. And the sky, he 
thought, should be blue instead of violet. 
Unk felt cold, too, and he longed for more warmth. The unending cold seemed as wrong, as 
unfair, somehow, as the fast moon and the violet sky. 
Unk's divisional commander was now talking to Unk's regimental commander. Unk's 
regimental commander spoke to Unk's battalion commander. Unk's battalion commander spoke 
to Unk's company commander. Unk's company commander spoke to Unk's platoon leader, who 
was Sergeant Brackman. 
Brackman came up to Unk and ordered him to march up to the man at the stake jn a military 
manner and strangle him until he was dead. 
Brackman told Unk it was a direct order. 
So Unk did it. 
He marched up to the man at the stake. He marched in time to the dry, tinny music of one 
snare drum. The sound of the snare drum was really just in his head, coming from his antenna: 
Rented a tent, a tent, a tent; Rented a tent, a tent, a tent. Rented a tent! Rented a tent! 
Rented a, rented a tent. 
When Unk got to the man at the stake, Unk hesitated for just a second — because the redhaired man at the stake looked so unhappy. Then there was a tiny warning pain in Unk's head, 
like the first deep nip of a dentist's drill. 
Unk put his thumbs on the red-haired man's windpipe, and the pain stopped right away. Unk 
didn't press with his thumbs, because the man was trying to tell him something. Unk was puzzled 
by the man's silence — and then realized that the man's antenna must be keeping him silent, just 
as antennas were keeping all of the soldiers silent. 
Heroically, the man at the stake now overcame the will of his antenna, spoke rapidly, 
writhingly. "Unk . . . Unk . . . Unk . . ." he said, and the spasms of the fight between his own will 
and the will of the antenna made him repeat the name idiotically. "Blue stone, Unk," he said. 
" Barrack twelve . . . letter." The warning pain nagged in Unk's head again. Dutifully, Unk strangled the man 
at the stake — choked him until the man's face was purple and his tongue stuck Out. 
Unk stepped back, came to attention, did a smart about-face and returned to his place in ranks 
— again accompanied by the snare drum in his head: 
Rented a tent, a tent, a tent; Rented a tent, a tent, a tent. 
Rented a tent! 
Rented a tent! 
Rented a, rented a tent. 
Sergeant Brackman nodded at Unk, winked affectionately. 
Again the ten thousand came to attention. Horribly, the dead man at the stake struggled to 
come to attention, too, rattling his chains. He failed — failed to be a perfect soldier — not 
because he didn't want to be one but because he was dead. 
Now the great formation broke up into rectangular components. These marched mindlessly 
away, each man hearing a snare drum in his head. An observer would have heard nothing but the 
tread of boots. 
An observer would have been at a loss as to who was really in charge, since even the generals 
moved like marionettes, keeping time to the idiotic words: 
Rented a tent, a tent, a tent; Rented a tent, a tent, a tent. Rented a tent! Rented a tent! 
Rented a, rented a tent. 
CHAPTER FIVE LETTER FROM AN UNKNOWN HERO 
"We can make the center of a man's memory virtually as sterile as a scalpel fresh from the autoclave. But grains of new experience begin to accumulate on it at once. These grains in turn form themselves into patterns not necessarily favorable to military thinking. Unfortunately, this problem of recontamination seems insoluble." 
— DR. MORRIS N. CASTLE, Director of Mental Health, Mars 
Unk's formation halted before a granite barrack, before a barrack in a perspective of thousands, a 
perspective that ran to seeming infinity on the iron plain. Before every tenth barrack was a 
flagpole with a banner snapping in the keen wind. The banners were all different. 
The banner that fluttered like a guardian angel over Unk's company area was very gay — red 
and white stripes, and many white stars on a field of blue. It was Old Glory, the flag of the 
United States of America on Earth. Down the line was the red banner of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 
Past that was a wonderful green, orange, yellow, and purple banner, showing a lion holding a 
sword. It was the flag of Ceylon. And past that was a red ball on a white field, the flag of Japan. 
The banners signified the countries that the various Martian units would attack and paralyze 
when the war between Mars and Earth began. 
Unk saw no banners until his antenna let his shoulders sag, let his joints loosen — let him fall 
out. He gawked at the long perspective of barracks and flagpoles. The barrack before which he 
stood had a large number painted over the door. The number was 576. 
Some part of Unk found the number fascinating, made Unk study it. Then he remembered the 
execution — remembered that the red-headed man he had killed had told him something about a 
blue stone and barrack twelve. 
Inside barrack 576, Unk cleaned his rifle, found it an extremely pleasant thing to do. He found, 
moreover, that he still knew how to take the weapon apart. That much of his memory, at any rate, 
had not been wiped out at the hospital. It made him furtively happy to suspect that there were 
probably other parts of his memory that had been missed as well. Why this suspicion should 
make him furtively happy he didn't know. 
He swabbed away at his rifle's bore. His weapon was an 11-millimeter German Mauser, single 
shot, a type of rifle that made its reputation when used by the Spaniards in the Earthling SpanishAmerican War. All of the Martian Army's rifles were of about the same vintage. Martian agents, 
working quietly on Earth, had been able to buy up huge quantities of Mausers and British 
Enfields and American Springfields for next to nothing. 
Unk's squadmates were swabbing their bores, too. The oil smelled good, and the oily patches, 
twisting through the rifling, resisted the thrust of the cleaning rod just enough to be interesting. 
There was hardly any talk. 
No one seemed to have taken particular notice of the execution. If there had been a lesson in 
the execution for Unk's squadmates, they were finding the lesson as digestible as Pablum. 
There had been only one comment on Unk's participation in the execution, and that had come 
from Sergeant Brackman. "You done all right, Unk," said Brackrnan. 
"Thanks," said Unk. 
"This man done all right, didn't he?" Brackman asked Unk's squadmates. 
There had been some nods, but Unk had the impression that his squadmates would 'have 
nodded in response to any positive question, would have, shaken their heads in response to any 
negative one. 
Unk withdrew the rod and patch, slipped his thumb under the open breech, caught the sunlight 
on his oily thumbnail. The thumbnail sent the sunlight up the bore. Unk put his eye to the muzzle 
and was thrilled by perfect beauty. He could have stared happily at the immaculate spiral of the 
rifling for hours, dreaming of the happy land whose round gate he saw at the other end of the 
bore. The pink under his oily thumbnail at the far end of the barrel made that far end seem a rosy 
paradise indeed. Some day he was going to crawl down the barrel to that paradise. 
It would be warm there — and there would be only one moon, Unk thought, and the moon 
would be fat, stately, and slow. Something else about the pink paradise at the end of the barrel 
came to Unk, and Unk was puzzled by the clarity of the vision. There were three beautiful 
women in that paradise, and Unk knew exactly what they looked like! One was white, one was 
gold, and one was brown. The golden girl was smoking a cigarette in Unk's vision. Unk was 
further surprised to find that he even knew what kind of cigarette the golden girl was smoking. 
It was a MoonMist Cigarette. 
"Sell MoonMist," Unk said out loud. It felt good to say that — felt authoritative, shrewd. 
"Huh?" said a young colored soldier, cleaning his rifle next to Unk. "What's that you say, 
Unk?" he said. He was twenty-three years old. His name was stitched in yellow on a black patch 
over his left breast pocket. Boaz was his name. 
If suspicions had been permitted in the Army of Mars, Boaz would have been a person to 
suspect. His rank was only Private, First Class, but his uniform, though regulation lichen green, 
was made of far finer stuff, and was much better tailored than the uniform of anyone around him 
— including the uniform of Sergeant Brackman. 
Everyone else's uniform was coarse, scratchy — held together by clumsy stitches of thick 
thread. And everyone else's uniform looked good only when the wearer stood at attention. In any 
other position, an ordinary soldier found that his uniform tended to bunch and crackle, as though 
made of paper. 
Boaz's uniform followed his every movement with silken grace. The stitches were numerous 
and tiny. And most puzzling of all: Boaz's shoes had a deep, rich, ruby luster — a luster that 
other soldiers could not achieve no matter how much they might polish their shoes. Unlike the 
shoes of anyone else in the company area, the shoes of Boaz were genuine leather from Earth. 
"You say sell something, Unk?" said Boaz. 
"Dump MoonMist. Get rid of it," murmured Unk. The words made no sense to him. He had let 
them out simply because they had wanted out so badly. "Sell," he said. 
Boaz smiled — ruefully amused. "Sell it, eh?" he said. "O.K., Unk — we sell it." He raised an 
eyebrow. "What we gonna sell, Unk?" There was something particularly bright and piercing 
about the pupils of his eyes. 
Unk found this yellow brightness, this sharpness of Boaz's eyes disquieting — increasingly so, 
as Boaz continued to stare. Unk looked away, looked by chance into the eyes of some of his 
other squadmates — found their eyes to be uniformly dull. Even the eyes of Sergeant Brackman 
were dull. 
Boaz's eyes continued to bite into Unk. Unk felt compelled to meet their gaze again. The 
pupils were seeming diamonds. "You don't remember me, Unk?" said Boaz. 
The question alarmed Unk. For some reason, it was important that he not remember Boaz. He 
was grateful that he really didn't remember him. 
"Boaz, Unk," said the colored man. "I'm Boaz." 
Unk nodded. "How do you do?" he said. 
"Oh — I don't do what you'd call real bad," said Boaz. He shook his head. "You don't 
remember nothing about me, Unk?" 
"No," said Unk. His memory was nagging him a little now — telling him that he might 
remember something about Boaz, if he tried as hard as he could. He shushed his memory. "Sorry 
— " said Unk. "My mind's a blank." 
"You and me — we're buddies," said Boaz. "Boaz and Unk." 
"Um," said Unk. 
"You remember what the buddy system is, Unk?" said Boaz. 
"No," said Unk. 
"Ever' man in ever' squad," said Boaz, "he got a buddy. Buddies share the same foxhole, stick 
right close to each other in attacks, cover each other. One buddy get in trouble in hand-to-hand, 
other buddy come up and help, slip a knife in." "Um," said Unk. 
"Funny," said Boaz, "what a man'll forget in the hospital and what he'll still remember, no 
matter what they do. You and me — we trained as buddies for a whole year, and 
you done forgot 
that. And then you say that thing 'bout cigarettes. What kind cigarettes, Unk?" 
"I — I forget," said Unk. 
"Try and remember now," said Boaz. "You had it once." He frowned and squinted, as though 
trying to help Unk remember. "I think it's so interesting what a man can remember after he's been 
to the hospital. Try and remember everything you can." 
There was a certain effeminacy about Boaz — in the nature of a cunning bully's chucking a 
sissy under the chin, talking baby-talk to him. But Boaz liked Unk — that was in his manner, too. 
Unk had the eerie feeling that he and Boaz were the only real people in the stone building — 
that the rest were glass-eyed robots, and not very well-made robots at that. Sergeant Brackman, 
supposedly in command, seemed no more alert, no more responsible, no more in command than 
a bag of wet feathers. 
"Let's hear all you can remember, Unk," wheedled Boaz. "Old buddy — " he said, "just 
remember all you can." 
Before Unk could remember anything, the head pain that had made him get on with the 
execution hurt him again. The pain did not stop, however, with the warning nip. 
While Boaz 
watched expressionlessly, the pain in Unk's head became a whanging, flashing thing. 
Unk stood, dropped his rifle, clawed at his head, reeled, screamed, fainted. 
When Unk came to on the barrack floor, his buddy Boaz was daubing Unk's temples with a 
cold washrag. 
Unk's squadmates stood in a circle around Unk and Boaz. The faces of the squadmates were 
unsurprised, unsympathetic. Their attitude was that Unk had done something stupid and 
unsoldierly, and so deserved what he got. 
They looked as though Unk had done something as militarily stupid as silhouetting himself 
against the sky or cleaning a loaded weapon, as sneezing on patrol or contracting and not 
reporting a venereal disease, as refusing a direct order or sleeping through reveille, as being 
drunk on guard or drawing to an inside straight, as keeping a book or a live hand grenade in his 
footlocker, as asking who had started the Army anyway and why . . . 
Boaz was the only one who looked sorry about what had happened to Unk. "It was all my 
fault, Unk," he said. 
Sergeant Brackman now pushed through the circle, stood over Unk and Boaz. "Wha'd he do, 
Boaz?" said Brackman. 
"I was kidding him, Sergeant," said Boaz earnestly. "I told him to try an' remember back as far 
as he could. I never dreamed he'd go and do it." 
"Oughta have more sense than to kid a man just back from the hospital," said Brackman 
gruffly. "Oh, I know it — I know it," said Boaz, full of remorse. "My buddy — " he said. 
"God damn 
me!" 
"Unk," said Brackman, "didn't they tell you about remembering at the hospital?" 
Unk shook his head vaguely. "Maybe," he said. "They told me a lot." 
"That's the worst thing you can do, Unk — remembering back," said Brackman. "That's what 
they put you in the hospital for in the first place — on account of you remembered too much." 
He made cups of his stubby hands, held in them the heart-breaking problem Unk had been. 
"Holy smokes," he said, "you were remembering so much, Unk, you weren't worth a nickel as a 
soldier." 
Unk sat up, laid his hand on his breast, found that the front of his blouse was wet with tears. 
He thought of explaining to Brackman that he hadn't really tried to remember back, that he'd 
known instinctively that that was a bad thing to do — but that the pain had hit him anywa y. He 
didn't tell Brackman that for fear that the pain would come again. 
Unk groaned and blinked away the last of the tears. He wasn't going to do anything he wasn't 
ordered to do. 
"As for you, Boaz — " said Brackman. "I don't know but what a week's latrine duty would 
maybe teach you something about horseplay with people just out of the hospital." 
Something formless in Unk's memory told Unk to watch the by-play between Brackman and 
Boaz closely. It was somehow important. "A week, Sergeant?" said Boaz. 
"Yes, by God — " said Brackman, and then he shuddered and closed his eyes. Plainly, his 
antenna had just given him a little stab of pain. "A whole week, Sarge?" asked Boaz innocently. 
"A day," said Brackman, and it was less a threat than a question. Again Brackman reacted to 
pain in his head. "Starting when, Sarge?" asked Boaz. 
Brackman fluttered his stubby hands. "Never mind," he said. He looked rattled, betrayed — 
haunted. He lowered his head, as though better to fight the pain if it came again. 
"No more 
horseplay, damn it," he said, his voice deep in his throat. And he hurried away, hurried into his 
room at the end of the barrack, slammed the door. 
The company commander, a Captain Arnold Burch, came into the barrack for a surprise 
inspection. 
Boaz was the first to see him. Boaz did what a soldier was supposed to do under such 
circumstances. Boaz shouted, " A-tennnn-hut!" Boaz did this, though he had no rank at all. It is a 
freak of military custom that the lowliest private can command his equals and noncommissioned 
superiors to attention, if he is the first to detect the presence of a commissioned officer in any 
roofed-over structure not in a combat area. 
The antennas of the enlisted men responded instantly, straightened the men's backs, locked 
their joints, hauled in their guts, tucked in their butts — made their minds go blank. Unk sprang 
up from the floor, stood stiff and shivering. 
Only one man was slow about coming to attention. That man was Boaz. And when he did 
come to attention, there was something insolent and loose and leering about the way he did it. 
Captain Burch, finding Boaz's attitude profoundly offensive, was about to speak 
to Boaz about 
it. But the Captain no sooner got his mouth open than pain hit him between the eyes. 
The captain closed his mouth without having made a sound. 
Under the baleful gaze of Boaz, he came smartly to attention, did an about-face, heard a snare 
drum in his head, and marched out of the barrack in step with the drum. 
When the captain was gone, Boaz did not put his squadmates at ease again, though it was in 
his power to do so. He had a small control box in his right front trouser pocket that could make 
his squadmates do just about anything. The box was the size of a one-pint hip flask. Like a hip 
flask, the box was curved to fit a body curve. Boaz chose to carry it on the hard, curved face of 
his thigh. 
The control box had six buttons and four knobs on it. By manipulating these, Boaz could 
control anybody who had an antenna in his skull. Boaz could administer pain in any amount to 
that anybody — could bring him to attention, could make him hear a snare drum, could make 
him march, halt, fall in, fall out, safute, attack, retreat, hop, skip, jump . . . Boaz had no antenna in his own skull. As free as it wanted to be — that's how free the free will of Boaz was. 
Boaz was one of the real commanders of the Army of Mars. He was in command of one-tenth 
of the force that was to attack the United States of America when the attack, on Earth was 
mounted. Down the line were units training to attack Russia, Switzerland, Japan, Australia, 
Mexico, China, Nepal, Uruguay. . . 
To the best of Boaz's knowledge, there were eight hundred real commanders of the Army of 
Mars — not one of them with an apparent rank above buck sergeant. The nominal commander of 
the entire Army, General of the Armies Borders M. Pulsifer, was in fact controlled at all times by 
his orderly, Corporal Bert Wright. Corporal Wright, the perfect orderly, carried aspirin for the 
General's almost chronic headaches. 
The advantages of a system of secret commanders are obvious. Any rebellion within the Army 
of Mars would be directed against the wrong people. And, in time of war, the enemy could 
exterminate the entire Martian officer class without disturbing the Army of Mars in the least. 
"Seven hundred and ninety-nine," said Boaz out loud, correcting his own understanding of the 
number of real commanders. One of the real commanders was dead, having been strangled at the 
stake by Unk. The strangled man had been Private Stony Stevenson, f ormer real commander of 
a British attack unit. Stony had become so fascinated by Unk's struggles to understand what was 
going on that he had begun, unconsciously, to help Unk think. 
Stevenson had suffered the ultimate humiliation for this. An antenna had been installed in his 
skull, and he had been forced by it to march to the stake like a good soldier — there to await 
murder by his protégé. 
Boaz let his squadmates go on standing at attention — let them go on quivering, thinking 
nothing, seeing nothing. Boaz went to Unk's cot, lay down on it with his big, lustrous shoes on 
the brown blanket. He folded his hands behind his head — arched his body like a bow. 
"Awwwww — " said Boaz, somewhere between a yawn and a groan. "Awwwww — now, 
men, men, men," he said, letting his mind idle. "God damn, now, men," he said. It was lazy, 
nonsense talk. Boaz was a little bored with his toys. It occurred to him to have them fight each 
other — but the penalty for doing that, if he got caught, was the same penalty Stony Stevenson 
had paid. "Awwwww — now, men. Really now, men," said Boaz languidly . 
"God damn it now, men," he said. " I got it made. You men got to admit that. Old Boaz is 
doing how you might say real fine." 
He rolled off the bed, landed on all fours, sprang to his feet with pantherlike grace. He smiled 
dazzlingly. He was doing everything he could to enjoy the fortunate position in life that was his. 
"You boys ain't got it so bad," he said to his rigid squadmates. "You oughta see how we treat the 
generals, if you think you's bad off." He chuckled and cooed. "Two nights ago us real 
commanders got ourselves in a argument about which general could run the fastest. Next thing 
you know, we got all twenty-three generals out of bed; all bare-ass naked, and we lined 'em up 
like they was race horses, and then we put our money down and laid the odds, and then we sent 
them generals off like the devil was after 'em. General Stover, he done placed first, with General 
Harrison right behind him, and with General Mosher behind him. Next morning, ever' general in 
the Army was stiff as a board. Not one of 'em could remember a thing about the night before." 
Boaz chuckled and cooed again, and then he decided that his fortunate position in life would 
look a lot better if he treated it seriously — showed what a load it was, showed how honored he 
felt to have a load like that. He reared back judiciously, hooked his thumbs under his belt and 
scowled. "Oh," he said, "it ain't all play by any means." He sauntered over to Unk, stood inches 
away from him, looked him up and down. "Unk, boy — " he said, "I'd hate to tell you how much 
time I've spent thinking about you — worrying about you, Unk." 
Boaz rocked on his feet. "You will try an' puzzle things out, won't you! You know how many 
times they had you in the hospital, trying to clean out that memory of yours? Seven times, Unk! 
You know how many times they usually have to send a man to have his memory cleaned out? 
Once, Unk. One time!" Boaz snapped his finger under Unk's nose. "And that does it, Unk. One 
time, and the man never bothers hisself about anything ever after." He shook his head 
wonderingly. "Not you, though, Unk." Unk shuddered. 
"I keeping you at attention too long, Unk?" said Boaz. He gritted his teeth. He couldn't forbear 
torturing Unk from time to time. 
For one thing, Unk had had everything back on Earth, and Boaz had had nothing. 
For another thing, Boaz was wretchedly dependent on Unk — or would be when they hit 
Earth. Boaz was an orphan who had been recruited when he was only fourteen — and he didn't 
have the haziest notion as to how to have a good time on Earth. He was counting on Unk to show him how. 
"You want to know who you are — where you come from — what you were?" said Boaz to 
Unk. Unk was still at attention, thinking nothing, unable to profit from whatever Boaz might tell 
him. Boaz wasn't talking for 
Unk's benefit anyway. Boaz was reassuring himself about the buddy who was going to be by 
his side when they hit Earth. 
"Man — " said Boaz, scowling at Unk, "you are one of the luckiest men ever lived. Back there 
on Earth, man, you were King!" 
Like most pieces of information on Mars, Boaz's pieces of information about Unk were 
underdeveloped. He could not say from where, exactly, the pieces had come. He had picked 
them out of the general background noises of army life. 
And he was too good a soldier to go around asking questions, trying to round out his 
knowledge. 
A soldier's knowledge wasn't supposed to be round. So that Boaz didn't really know anything 
about Unk except that he had been very lucky once. He embroidered on this. 
"I mean — " said Boaz, "there wasn't anything you couldn't have, wasn't anything you couldn't 
do, wasn't no place you couldn't go!" 
And while Boaz stressed the marvel of Unk's good luck on Earth, he was expressing a deep 
concern for another marvel — his superstitious conviction that his own luck on Earth was sure to 
be rotten. 
Boaz now used three magical words that seemed to describe the maximum happiness a person 
could achieve on Earth: Hollywood night clubs. He had never seen Hollywood, had never seen a 
night club. "Man," he said, "you were in and out of Hollywood night clubs all day and all night 
long. 
"Man," said Boaz to uncomprehending Unk, "you had everything a man needs to really lead 
hisself a life on Earth, and you knowed how to do it, too. "Man," said Boaz to Unk, trying to conceal the pathetic formlessness of his 
aspirations. "We're 
going to go into some fine places and order us up some fine things, and circulate and carry on, 
with some fine people, and just generally have us a good whoop-dee-doo." He seized Unk's arm, 
rocked him. "Buddies — that's us, buddy. Boy — we're going to be a famous 
pair — going everywhere, doing everything. 
"'Here comes lucky old Unk and his buddy Boaz!'" said Boaz, saying what he hoped 
Earthlings would be saying after the conquest. "'And there they go, happy as two birds!'" He 
chuckled and cooed about the happy, birdlike pair. His smile withered. 
His smiles never lasted very long. Somewhere deep inside Boaz was worried sick. He was 
worried sick about losing his job. It had never been clear to him how he had landed the job — 
the great privilege. He didn't even know who had given him the swell job. Boaz didn't even know who was in command of the real commanders. 
He had never received an order — not from anyone who was superior to the real commanders. 
Boaz based his actions, as did all the real commanders, on what could be best described as 
conversational tidbits — tidbits circulated on the real-commander level. 
Whenever the real commanders got together late at night, the tidbits were passed around with 
the beer and the crackers and cheese. 
There would be a tidbit, for instance, about waste in the supply rooms, and another about the 
desirability of soldiers' actually getting hurt and mad during jujitsu training, 
another about 
soldiers' shabby tendency to skip loops in lacing up their puttees. Boaz himself would pass these 
on, without any idea as to their point of origin — and he would base his actions on them. 
The execution of Stony Stevenson by Unk had also been announced in this way. Suddenly, it 
had been the topic of conversation. Suddenly, the real commanders had placed Stony under arrest. 
Boaz now fingered the control box in his pocket, without actually touching a control. He took 
his place among the men he controlled, came to attention voluntarily, pressed a button, and 
relaxed as his squadmates relaxed. 
He wanted a drink of hard liquor very much. And be was entitled to liquor, too, whenever he 
wanted it. Unlimited supplies of all kinds of liquor were flown in from Earth regularly for the 
real commanders. And the officers could have all the liquor they wanted, too, though they 
couldn't get the good stuff. What the officers drank was a lethal green liquor made locally out of 
fermented lichens. 
But Boaz never drank. One reason he didn't drink was that he was afraid that alcohol would 
impair his efficiency as a soldier. Another reason he didn't drink was that he was 
afraid that he would forget himself and offer an enlisted man a drink. 
The penalty for a real commander who offered an enlisted man an alcoholic beverage was 
death. "Yes, Lord," said Boaz, adding his voice to the hubbub of the relaxing men. 
Ten minutes later, Sergeant Brackman declared a recreation period, during which everyone 
was supposed to go out and play German batball, the chief sport of the Army of Mars. 
Unk stole away. 
Unk stole away to barrack 12 to look for the letter under the blue rock — the letter that his 
red-headed victim had told him about. 
The barracks in the area were empty. 
The banner at the head of the mast before them was thin air. 
The empty barracks had been the home of a battalion of Martian Imperial Commandos. The 
Commandos had disappeared quietly in the dead of night a month before. They had taken off in 
their space ships, their faces blackened, their dog tags taped so as not to clink — their destination 
secret. 
The Martian Imperial Commandos were experts at killing sentries with loops of piano wire. 
Their secret destination was the Earthling moon. They were going to start the war there. 
Unk found a big blue stone outside the furnace room of barrack twelve. The stone was a 
turquoise. Turquoises are very common on Mars. The turquoise Unk found was a flagstone a 
foot across. 
Unk looked under it. He found an aluminum cylinder with a screw cap. Inside the cylinder was 
a very long letter written in pencil. 
Unk did not know who had written it. He was in poor shape for guessing, since he knew the 
names of only three people — Sergeant Brackman, Boaz, and Unk. 
Unk went into the furnace room and closed the door. He was excited, though he didn't know 
why. He began to read by the light from the dusty window. Dear Unk: — the letter began . 
Dear Unk: — the letter began : They aren't much, God knows — but here are the things I know 
for sure, and at. the end you will find a list of questions you should do your best to find answers 
to. The questions are important. I have thought harder about them than I have about the answers 
I already have. That is the first thing I know for sure: (1.) If the questions don't make sense, 
neither will the answers. 
All the things that the writer knew for sure were numbered, as though to emphasize the 
painful, stepby-step nature of the game of finding things out for sure. There were one hundred 
and fifty-eight things the writer knew for sure. There had once been one hundred and eighty-five, 
but seventeen had been crossed off. 
The second item was, (2.) I am a thing called alive. 
The third was, (3.) I am in a place called Mars. 
The fourth was, (4.) I am in a part of a thing called an army. 
The fifth was, (5.) The army plans to kill other things called alive in a place called Earth. 
Of the first eighty-one items, not one was crossed out. And, in the first eight .one items, the 
writer progressed to subtler and subtler matters, and mistakes grew more numerous. 
Boaz was explained and dismissed by the writer very early in the game. 
(46.) Watch out for Boaz, Unk. He is not what he seems. 
(47.) Boaz has something in his right-hand pocket that hurts people in the head when they do 
something Boaz doesn't like. 
(48.) Some other people have things that can hurt you in the head, too. You can't tell by 
looking who has one, so be sweet to everybody. (71.) Unk, old friend — almost everything I know for sure has come from 
fighting the pain 
from my antenna, said the letter to Unk. Whenever I start to turn my head and look at something, 
and the pain comes, I keep turning my head anyway, because I know I am going to see something 
I'm not supposed to see. Whenever I ask a question, and the pain comes, I know I have asked a 
really good question. Then I break the question into little pieces, and I ask the pieces of the 
questions. Then I get answers to the pieces, and then I put the answers all together and get an 
answer to the big question. 
(72.) The more pain I train myself to stand, the more I learn. You are afraid of the pain now, 
Unk, but you won't learn anything if you don't invite the pain. And the more you learn, the 
gladder you will be to stand the pain. 
There in the furnace room of the empty barrack, Unk laid the letter aside for a moment. He felt 
like crying, for the heroic writer's faith in Unk was misplaced. Unk knew he couldn't stand a 
fraction of the pain the writer had stood — couldn't possibly love knowledge that much. 
Even the little sample twinge they had given him in the hospital had been excruciating. He 
gulped air now, like a fish dying on a riverbank, remembering the big pain Boaz 
had slammed 
him with in the barrack. He would rather die than risk another pain like that. 
His eyes watered. 
If he had tried to speak, he would have sobbed. 
Poor Unk didn't want any trouble from anybody ever again. Whatever information he gained 
from the letter — information gained by another man's heroism — he would use to avoid any 
more pain. 
Unk wondered if there were people who could stand more pain than others. He supposed this 
was the case. He supposed tearfully that he was especially sensitive in this regard. Without 
wishing the writer any harm, Unk wished the writer could feel, just once, the pains as Unk felt 
them. Then maybe the writer would address his letters to someone else. 
Unk had no way of judging the quality of the information contained in the letter. He accepted 
it all hungrily, uncritically. And, in accepting it, Unk gained an understanding of life that was 
identical with the writer's understanding of life. Unk wolfed down a philosophy. 
And mixed in with the philosophy were gossip, history, astronomy, biology, theology, 
geography, psychology, medicine — and even a short story. 
Some random examples: Gossip: (22.) General Borders is drunk all the time, He is so drunk he can't even 
tie his 
shoelaces so they will stay tied. Officers are as mixed up and unhappy as anybody. You used to 
be one, Unk, with a battalion all your own. 
History: (26.) Everybody on Mars came from Earth. They thought they would be better off on 
Mars. Nobody can remember what was so bad about Earth. Astronomy:( 11.) Everything in the whole sky revolves around Mars once a day. 
Biology:( 58.) New people come out of women when men and women sleep together. New 
people hardly ever come out of women on Mars because the men and the women sleep in 
different places. Theology: (15.) Somebody made everything for some reason. 
Geography: (16.) Mars is round. The only city on it is called Phoebe. Nobody knows why it is 
called Phoebe. 
Psychology: (103.) Unk, the big trouble with dumb bastards is that they are too dumb to 
believe there is such a thing as being smart. 
Medicine: (73.) When they clean out a man's memory on this place called Mars, they don't 
really clean it completely. They lust clean out the middle of it, sort of. They 
always leave a lot of 
stuff in the corners. There is a story around about how they tried cleaning out a few memories 
completely. The poor people who had that done to them couldn't walk, couldn't talk, couldn't do 
anything. The only thing anybody could think of to do with them was to housebreak them, teach 
them a basic vocabulary of a thousand words, and give them jobs in military or industrial public 
relations. 
The short story: (89.) Unk, your best friend is Stony Stevenson. Stony is a big, happy, strong 
man, and he drinks a quart of whisky a day. Stony doesn't have an antenna in his head, and he 
can remember everything that ever happened to him. He pretends to be an intelligence scout, but 
he is one of the real commanders. He radio-controls a company of assault infantrymen who are 
going to attack a place on Earth called England. Stony is from England. Stony likes the Army of 
Mars because there is so much to laugh about. Stony laughs all the time. He heard what an 
eightball you were, Unk, so he came over to your barrack to have a look at you. He pretended he 
was a friend of yours, so he could hear you talk. After a while, you got to trust him, Unk, and you 
told him some of your secret theories about what life on Mars was all about. Stony tried to laugh, 
but then he realized that you had turned up some things that he didn't know anything about. He 
couldn't get over it, because he was supposed to know everything, and you weren't supposed to 
know anything. And then you told Stony a lot of the big questions you wanted answered, and 
Stony knew the answers to only about half of them. And Stony went back to his barrack, and the 
questions he didn't know the answers to kept going around and around in his head. He couldn't 
sleep that night, even though he drank and drank and drank. He was catching on that somebody 
was using him, and he didn't have any idea who it was. He didn't even know why there had to be 
an Army of Mars in the first place. He didn't even know why Mars was going to attack Earth. 
And the more he remembered about Earth, the more he realized that the Army of Mars didn't 
have the chance of a snowball in hell. The big attack on Earth would be suicide for sure. Stony 
wondered who he could talk to about this, and there just wasn't anybody but you, Unk. So Stony 
staggered out of bed about an hour before sunrise, and he sneaked in your barrack, Unk, and he 
woke you up. He told you everything about Mars he knew. And he said that from 
now on he 
would tell you every bloody thing he found out, and you were supposed to tell him every bloody 
thing you found out. And every so often you two would get off somewhere and try to fit things 
together. And he gave you a bottle of whisky. And you both drank from it, and Stony said you 
were his best bloody friend. He said you, were the only bloody friend he had ever had on Mars, 
even though he laughed all the time, and he cried, and almost woke up people around your bunk. 
He told you to watch out for Boaz, and then he went back to his barrack and slept like a baby. 
The letter, from the point of the short story on, was proof of the effectiveness of the secret 
observation team of Stony Stevenson and Unk. From that point on, the things known for sure in 
the letter were almost all introduced by phrases like : Stony says — and You found out — and 
Stony told you — and You told Ston y — and You and Stony got roaring drunk out on the rifle 
range one night, and you two crazy bums decided — The most important thing that the two crazy bums decided was that the man who 
was in actual 
command of everything on Mars was a big, genial, smiling, yodeling man who always had a big 
dog with him. This man and his dog, according to the letter to Unk, appeared at secret meetings 
of the real commanders of the Army of Mars about once every hundred days. 
The letter said nothing about it, because the writer knew nothing about it, but this man and his 
dog were Winston Niles Rumfoord and Kazak, the hound of space. And their appearances on 
Mars were not irregular. Being chrono-synclastic infundibulated, Rumfoord and Kazak appeared 
as predictably as Halley's Comet. They appeared on Mars once every one hundred and eleven 
days. As the letter to Unk said, (155.) According to Stony, this big guy and his dog 
show up at the 
meetings, and just snow everybody under. He is a big charm boy, and by the time a meeting is 
over everybody is trying to think just exactly the way he thinks. Every idea anybody has comes 
from him. He just smiles and smiles and yodels and yodels in that fancy voice of his, and fills 
everybody up with new ideas. And then all the people at the meeting pass around the ideas as 
though they had thought them up themselves. He is crazy about the game of German batball. 
Nobody knows what his name is. He just laughs, if anybody asks him. He usually wears the 
uniform of the Parachute Ski Marines, but the real commanders of the Parachute Ski Marines 
swear they've never seen him anywhere but at the secret meetings. 
(156.) Unk, old pal, said the letter to Unk, every time you and Stony find out something new, 
add it on to this letter. Keep this letter well hidden. And every time you change its hiding place, 
be sure to tell Stony where you put it. That way, even if you go to the hospital to have your 
memory cleaned out, Stony can tell you where to go to have your memory filled up again. 
(157.) Unk — you know why you keep on going? You keep on going because you have a mate 
and a child. Almost nobody on Mars has either one. Your mate's name is Bee. She is an 
instructress at the Schliemann Breathing School in Phoebe. Your son's name is Chrono. He lives 
in the grade school in Phoebe. According to Stony Stevenson, Chrono is the best German batball 
player in the school. Like everybody else on Mars, Bee and Chrono have learned to get along all 
alone. They don't miss you. They never think of you. But you have to prove to them that they need 
you in the biggest way possible. 

(158.) Unk, you crazy son-of -a-bitch, I love you. I think you are the cat's pajamas. When you 
get this little family of yours together, swipe a space ship and go flying away to somewhere 
peaceful and beautiful, some place where you don't have to take goof balls all the time to stay 
alive. Take Stony with you. And when you get settled down, all of you spend a lot of time trying 
to figure out why whoever made everything went and made it. 
All that remained for Unk to read of the letter was the signature. The signature was on a separate page. 
Before turning to the signature, Unk tried to imagine the character and appearance of the 
writer. The writer was fearless. The writer was such a lover of truth that he would expose himself 
to any amount of pain in order to add to his store of truth. He was superior to Unk and Stony. He 
watched and recorded their subversive activities with love, amusement, and detachment. 
Unk imagined the writer as being a marvelous old man with a white beard and the build of a 
blacksmith. 
Unk turned the page and read the signature. 
I remain faithfully yours — was the sentiment expressed above the signature. 
The signature itself filled almost the whole page. It was three block letters, six inches high and 
two inches wide. The letters were executed clumsily, with a smeary black kindergarten 
exuberance. 
This was the signature: 
The signature was Unk's. 
Unk was the hero who had written the letter. 
Unk had written the letter to himself before having his memory cleaned out. It was literature in 
its finest sense, since it made Unk courageous, watchful, and secretly free. It made him his own 
hero in very trying times. 
Unk did not know that the man he had murdered at the stake was his best friend, was Stony 
Stevenson. Had he known that, he might have killed himself. But Fate spared him that awful 
knowledge for many years. 
When Unk got back to his barrack, jungle knives and bayonets were being honed with harsh 
screescraws. Everyone was sharpening a blade. And everywhere were sheepish smiles of a peculiar sort. The smiles spoke of 
sheep who, under proper conditions, could commit murder gladly. 
Orders had just been received that the regiment was to proceed with all possible haste to its 
space ships. The war with Earth had begun. 
Advance units of the Martian Imperial Commandos had already obliterated Earthling 
installations on the Earthling moon. The Commando rocket batteries, firing from the moon, were 
now giving every major city a taste of hell. 
And, as dinner music for those tasting hell, Martian radios were beaming this message to Earth 
in a maddening sing-song: 
Brown man, white man, yellow man — surrender or die. Brown man, white man, yellow man — surrender or die. 
CHAPTER SIX A DESERTER IN TIME OF WAR 
"I am at a loss to understand why German batball 
is not an event, possibly a key event, in the Olympic 
Games." 
— WINSTON NILES RUMFOORD 
It was a six-mile march from the army camp to the plain where the invasion fleet lay. And the 
route of the march cut across the northwest corner of Phoebe, the only city on Mars. 
The population of Phoebe at its height, according to Winston Niles Rumfoord's 
Pocket History of Mars, was eighty-seven thousand. Every soul and every structure in Phoebe 
was directly 
related to the war effort. The mass of Phoebe's workers were controlled just as the soldiers were 
controlled, by antennas under their skulls. 
Unk's company was now marching through the northwest corner of Phoebe, on its way in the 
midst of its regiment to the fleet. It was thought unnecessary now to keep the soldiers moving 
and in ranks by means of twinges from their antennas. War fever had them now. 
They chanted as they marched, and set their iron. heeled boots down hard on the iron street. 
Their chant was bloody: 
Terror, grief, and desolation — Hut, tup, thrup, fo! — Come to every Earthling nation! Hut, tup, thrup, fo! — 
Earth eat fire! Earth wear chains! 
Hut, tup, thrup, fo! 
Break Earth's spirit, spill Earth's brains! 
Hut, tup, thrup, fo! 
Scream! Tup, thrup, fo! 
Bleed! Tup, thrup, fo! 
Die! Tup, thrup, fo! 
Doooooooooommmmmmmmmm. 
The factories of Phoebe were still going full blast. No one was idling in the streets to watch the 
chanting heroes pass. Windows winked as dazzling torches inside went off and on. A doorway 
vomited spattering, smoking yellow light as metal was poured. The screams of grinding wheels 
cut through the soldiers' chant. 
Three flying saucers, blue scout ships, skimmed low over the city, making sweet cooing 
sounds like singing tops. "Toodleoo," they seemed to sing, and they skimmed 
away in a flat 
course while the surface of Mars curved away beneath them. In two shakes of a lamb's tail, they 
were twinkling in space eternal. "Terror, grief and desolation — " chanted the troops. 
But one soldier was moving his lips without making a sound. The soldier was Unk. 
Unk was in the first file of the next to the last rank of his company. 
Boaz was right behind him, his eyes making the back of Unk's neck itch. Boaz and Unk, 
moreover, were made Siamese twins by the long tube of a six-inch siege mortar which they were 
carrying between them. 
"Bleed! Tup, thrup, fo!" chanted the troops. "Die! Tup, thrup, fo! Doooooooooommmmmmmmmm." "Unk, old buddy — " said Boaz. 
"Yes, old buddy?" said Unk absently. He was holding, amid the confusion of his soldier's 
harness, a live hand grenade. The pin had been pulled. To make it go off in three seconds, Unk 
had only to let go of it. 
"I done fixed us up with a good assignment, old buddy," said Boaz. "Old Boaz — he takes 
care of his buddy, don't he, buddy?" "That's right, buddy," said Unk. 
Boaz had arranged things so that he and Unk would be on board the company mother ship for 
the invasion. The company mother ship, though it would, through a logistical fluke, be carrying 
the tube of the siege mortar, was essentially a noncombat ship. It was meant to carry only two 
men, the rest of the space being taken up by candy, sporting goods, recorded music, canned 
hamburgers, board games, goofballs, soft drinks, Bibles, note paper, barber kits, ironing boards, 
and other morale-builders. "That's a lucky start, ain't it, old buddy — getting on the mother ship?" 
"Lucky us, old buddy," said Unk. He had just chucked the grenade into a sewer as he passed. 
There was a spout and roar from the throat of the sewer. The soldiers hurled themselves to the street. 
Boaz, as the real commander of the company, was the first to raise his head. He saw the smoke 
coming from the sewer, supposed that it was sewer gas that had exploded. Boaz slipped his hand into his pocket, pressed a button, fed to his company the 
signal that would make them stand up again. 
As they stood, Boaz stood, too. "God damn, buddy," he said, "I guess we done had a baptism 
of fire." 
He picked up his end of the siege mortar's tube. 
There was nobody to pick up the other end. 
Unk had gone in search of his wife and son and his best friend. 
Unk had gone over the hill on flat, flat, flat, flat Mars. 
The son that Unk was looking for was named Chrono. 
Chrono was, by Earthling reckoning, eight years old. He was named after the month in which 
he had been born. The Martian year was divided into twenty-one months, twelve with thirty 
days, and nine with thirty-one. These months were named January, February, March, April, May, 
June, July, August, September, October, November, December, Winston, Niles, Rumfoord, 
Kazak, Newport, Chrono, Synclastic, Infundibulum, and Salo. Mnemonically: Thirty days have Salo, Niles, June, and September, Winston, Chrono, Kazak, and November, 
April, Rumfoord, Newport, and Infundibulum. 
All the rest, baby mine, have thirty-one. 
The month of Salo was named after a creature Winston Niles Rumfoord knew on Titan. Titan, of 
course, is an extremely pleasant moon of Saturn. 
Salo, Rumfoord's crony on Titan, was a messenger from another galaxy who was forced down 
on Titan by the failure of a part in his space ship's power plant. He was waiting for a replacement 
part. He had been waiting patiently for two hundred thousand years. 
His ship was powered, and the Martian war effort was powered, by a phenomenon known as 
UWTB, or the Universal Will to Become. UWTB is what makes universes out of nothingness — 
that makes nothingness insist on becoming somethingness. Many Earthlings are glad. that Earth does not have UWTB. As the popular doggerel has it: Willy found some Universal Will to Become, 
Mixed it with his bubble gum. 
Cosmic piddling seldom pays: 
Poor Willy's six new Milky Ways. 
Unk's son Chrono was, at eight years old, a wonderful player of a game called German batball. 
German batball was all that he cared about. German batball was the major sport 
on Mars — in the grammar school, in the Army, and in the factory workers' recreation areas. 
Since there were only fifty-two children on Mars, Mars got along with just one grammar 
school, right in the middle of Phoebe. None of the fifty-two children there had been conceived on 
Mars. All had been conceived either on Earth or, as in Chrono's case, on a space ship bringing 
new recruits to Mars. 
The children in the school studied very little, since the society of Mars had no particular use 
for them. They spent most of their time playing German batball. 
The game of German batball is played with a flabby ball the size of a big honeydew melon. 
The ball is no more lively than a ten-gallon hat filled with rain water. The game is something like 
baseball, with a batter striking the ball into a field of opposing players and running around bases; 
and with the fielders attempting to catch the ball and frustrate the runner. There are, however, 
only three bases in German batball — first, second, and home. And the batter is not pitched to. 
He places the ball on one fist and strikes the ball with his other fist. And if a fielder succeeds 
instriking the runner with the ball when the runner is between bases, the runner is deemed out, 
and must leave the playing field at once. 
The person responsible for the heavy emphasis on German batball on Mars was, of course, 
Winston Niles Rumfoord, who was responsible for everything on Mars. Howard W. Sams proves in his Winston Niles Rumfoord, Benjamin Franklin, 
and Leonardo da Vinci that German batball was the only team sport with which Rumfoord was at 
all familiar as a 
child. Sams shows that Rumfoord was taught the game, when a child, by his governess, a Miss 
Joyce MacKenzie. 
Back in Rumfoord's childhood in Newport, a team composed of Rumfoord, Miss MacKenzie, 
and Earl Moncrief the butler, used to play German batball regularly against a team composed of 
Watanabe Wataru the Japanese gardener, Beverly June Wataru the gardener's daughter, and 
Edward Seward Darlington the half-wit stable boy. Rumfoord's team invariably won. 
Unk, the only deserter in the history of the Army of Mars, now crouched panting behind a 
turquoise boulder and watched the school children playing German batball on the iron 
playground. Behind the boulder with Unk was a bicyde he had stolen from a gas- mask factory's 
bicycle rack. Unk did not know which child was his son, which child was 
Chrono. 
Unk's plans were nebulous. His dream was to gather together his wife, his son, and his best 
friend, to steal a space ship, and to fly away to some place where they could all live happily ever 
after. "Hey, Chrono!" cried a child on the playground. "You're up to bat!" 
Unk peered around the boulder at home plate. The child who came up to bat there would be 
Chrono, would be his son. Chrono, Unk's son, came up to bat. 
He was small for his age, but surprisingly manly through the shoulders. The child's hair was 
jet black, bristly — and the black bristles grew in a violently counter-clockwise swirl. 
The child was left-handed. The ball rested on his right fist, and he prepared to hit it with his 
left. 
His eyes were deep-set, like his father's eyes. And his eyes were luminous under their blackthatched eaves. They glowed with an unshared rage. 
Those rage-filled eyes flicked this way, then that. Their movements rattled the fielders, 
drawing them away from their positions, convincing them that the slow, stupid ball was going to 
come at them with terrible speed, was going to tear them to pieces if they dared to get in the way. 
The alarm inspired by the boy at bat was felt by the teacher, too. She was in the traditional 
position for an umpire in German batball, between first and second base, and she was terrified. 
She was a frail old lady name Isabel Fenstermaker. She was seventy-three, and had been a 
Jehovah's Witness before having her memory cleaned out. She had been shanghaied while trying 
to sell a copy of The Watchtower to a Martian agent in Duluth. "Now, Chrono — " she said simperingly, "it's only a game, you know." 
The sky was suddenly blackened by a formation of a hundred flying saucers, the blood-red 
ships of the Martian Parachute Ski Marines. The combined cooing of the ships was a melodious 
thunder that rattled the schoolhouse windowpanes. 
But, as a measure of the importance young Chrono gave to German batball when he came to 
bat, not a single child looked up at the sky. 
Young Chrono, having brought the fielders and Miss Fenstermaker to the brink of nervous 
collapse, now put the ball down by his feet, took from his pocket a short strip of metal that was 
his good-luck piece. He kissed the strip for luck, returned the strip to his pocket. 
Then he suddenly picked up the ball again, hit it a mighty bloop, and went scrambling around 
the bases. 
The fielders and Miss Fenstermaker dodged the ball as though it were a red-hot cannonball. 
When the ball came to a stop of its own accord, the fielders went after it with a sort of ritual 
clumsiness. Clearly, the point of their efforts was not to hit Chrono with the ball, was not to put 
him out. The fielders were all conspiring to increase the glory of Chrono by making a show of 
helpless opposition. 
Clearly, Chrono was the most glorious thing that the children had ever seen on Mars, and any 
glory they themselves had came from their association with him.. They would do anything to 
make his glory grow. Young Chrono slid into home in a cloud of rust. 
A fielder hurled the ball at him — too late, too late, much too late. The fielder ritually cursed 
his luck. 
Young Chrono stood, dusted himself off, and again kissed his good-luck piece, thanked it for 
another home run. He believed firmly that all his powers came from the good- luck piece, and so 
did his schoolmates, and so, secretly, did Miss Fenstermaker. The history of the good-luck piece was this: 
One day the school children were taken by Miss Fenstermaker on an educational tour of a 
flamethrower factory. The factory manager explained to the children all the steps in the 
manufacture of flamethrowers, and hoped that some of the children, when they grew up, would 
want to come to work for him. At the end of the tour, in the packaging department, the manager's 
ankle became snarled in a spiral of steel strapping, a type of strapping that was used for binding 
shut the packaged flame-throwers. 
The spiral was a piece of jagged-ended scrap that had been cast into the factory aisle by a 
careless workman. The manager scratched his ankle and tore his pants before he got free of the 
spiral. He thereupon put on the first really comprehensible demonstration that the children had 
seen that day. Comprehensibly, he blew up at the spiral. He stamped on it. 
Then, when it nipped him again, he snatched it up and chopped it into four-inch lengths with 
great shears. 
The children were edified, thrilled, and satisfied. And, as they were leaving the packaging 
department, young Chrono picked up one of the four-inch pieces and slipped it into his pocket. 
The piece he picked up differed from all the rest in having two holes drilled in it. This was Chrono's good-luck piece. It became as much a part of him as his right 
hand. His 
nervous system, so to speak, extended itself into the metal strap. Touch it and you touched 
Chrono. 
Unk, the deserter, stood up behind his turquoise boulder, walked vigorously and officiously 
into the school yard. He had stripped his uniform of all insignia. This gave him a rather official, 
warlike look, with-out binding him to any particular enterprise. Of all the equipment he had 
been carrying before he deserted, he retained only a jungle knife, his single-shot Mauser, and one 
grenade. These three weapons he left cached behind the boulder, along with the stolen bicycle. 
Unk marched up to Miss Fenstermaker. He told her that he wished to interview young Chrono 
on official business at once — privately. He did not tell her that he was the boy's father. Being 
the boy's father entitled him to nothing. Being an official investigator entitled him to anything he 
might care to ask for. 
Poor Miss Fenstermaker was easily fooled. She agreed to let Unk interview the boy in her own 
office. 
Her office was crammed with ungraded school papers, some of them dating back five years. 
She was far behind in her work — so far behind that she had declared a moratorium on school 
work until she could catch up on her grading. Some of the stacks of papers had tumbled, forming 
glaciers that sent fingers under her desk, into the hallway, and into her private lavatory. 
There was an open, two-drawer filing cabinet filled with her rock collection. 
Nobody ever checked up on Miss Fenstermaker. Nobody cared. She had a teaching certificate 
from the State of Minnesota, U.S.A., Earth, Solar System, Milky Way. and that was all that 
mattered. 
For his interview with his son, Unk sat behind her desk while his son Chrono stood before 
him. It was Chrono's wish to remain standing. 
Unk, in planning the things he would say, idly opened Miss Fenstermaker's desk drawers, 
found that they were filled with rocks, too. 
Young Chrono was shrewd and hostile, and he thought of something to say before Unk did. 
"Baloney," he said. "What?" said Unk. "Whatever you say — it's baloney," said the eight-year-old. "What makes you think so?" said Unk. "Everything anybody says is baloney," said Chrono. "What you care what I think 
anyway? 
When I'm fourteen, you put a thing in my head and I do whatever you want anyway." 
He was referring to the fact that antennas were not installed in the skulls of children until their 
fourteenth year. This was a matter of skull size. When a child reached his fourteenth birthday, he 
was sent to the hospital for the operation. His hair was shaved off, and the doctors and nurses 
joshed him about having entered adulthood. Before the child was wheeled into the operating 
room he was asked to name his favorite kind of ice cream. When the child awoke after the 
operation, a big dish of that kind of ice cream was waiting for him — maple walnut, 
buttercrunch, chocolate chip, anything. 
"Is your mother full of baloney?" said Unk. 
"She is since she came back from the hospital this last time," said Chrono. 
"What about your father?" said Unk. 
"I don't know anything about him," said Chrono. "I don't care. He's full of baloney like 
everybody else." "Who isn't full of baloney?" said Unk. "I'm not full of baloney," said Chrono. "I'm the only one." "Come closer," said Unk. 
"Why should I?" said Chrono. 
"Because I'm going to whisper something very important." 
"I doubt it," said Chrono. 
Unk got up from the desk, went around to Chrono, and whispered in his ear, "I'm your father, 
boy!" When Unk said those words, his heart went off like a burglar alarm. 
Chrono was unmoved. "So what?" he said stonily. He had never received any instructions, had 
never seen an example in life, that would make him think a father was of any importance. On 
Mars, the word was emotionally meaningless. 
"I've come to get you," said Unk. "Somehow we're going to get away from here." He shook 
the boy gently, trying to make him bubble a little. 
Chrono peeled his father's hand from his arm as though the hand were a leech. "And do what?" 
he said. "Live!" said Unk. 
The boy looked over his father dispassionately, seeking one good reason why he should throw 
in his lot with this stranger. Chrono took his good-luck piece from his pocket, and rubbed it 
between his palms. 
The imagined strength he got from the good-luck piece made him strong enough to trust 
nobody, to go on as he had for so long, angry and alone. "I'm living," he said. "I'm all right," he 
said. "Go to hell." 
Unk took a step backward. The corners of his mouth pulled down. "Go to hell?" he whispered. 
"I tell everybody to go to hell," said the boy. He was trying to be kind, but he wearied of the 
effort at once. "Can I go out and play batball now?" 
"You'd tell your own father to go to hell?" murmured Unk. The question echoed back through 
Unk's emptied memory to an untouched corner where bits of his own strange childhood still 
lived. His own strange childhood had been spent in daydreams of at last seeing and loving a 
father who did not want to see him, who did not want to be loved by him. "I — I deserted from the army to come here — to find you," said Unk. 
Interest flickered in the boy's eyes, then died. "They'll get you," he said. "They get 
everybody." 
"I'll steal a space ship," said Unk. "And you and your mother and I will get on it, and we'll fly 
away!" "To where?" said the boy. "Some place good!" said Unk. "Tell me about some place good," said Chrono. 
"I don't know. We'll have to look!" said Unk. 
Chrono shook his head pityingly. "I'm sorry," he said. "I don't think you know what you're 
talking about. You'd just get a lot of people killed." 
"You want to stay here?" said Unk. 
"I'm all right here," said Chrono. "Can I go out and play batball now?" 
Unk wept. 
His weeping appalled the boy. He had never seen a man weep before. He never wept himself. 
"I'm going out to play!" he cried wildly, and he ran out of the office. 
Unk went to the window of the office. He looked out at the iron playground. Young Chrono's 
team was in the field now. Young Chrono joined his teammates, faced a batter whose back was 
to Unk. 
Chrono kissed his good-luck piece, put it in his pocket. "Easy out, you guys," he yelled 
hoarsely. "Come on, you guys — let's kill him!" Unk's mate, the mother of young Chrono, was an instructress in the Schliemann 
Breathing 
School for Recruits. Schliemann breathing, of course, is a technique that enables human beings 
to survive in a vacuum or in an inhospitable atmosphere without the use of helmets or other 
cumbersome respiratory gear. 
It consists, essentially, of taking a pill rich in oxygen. The bloodstream takes on this oxygen 
through the wall of the small intestine rather than through the lungs. On Mars, the pills were 
known officially as Combat Respiratory Rations, in popular parlance as goofballs. 
Schliemann Breathing is at its simplest in a benign but useless atmosphere like that of Mars. 
The breather goes on breathing and talking in a normal manner, though there is no oxygen for his 
lungs to take in from the atmosphere. All he has to remember is to take his goofballs regularly. 
The school in which Unk's mate was an instructress taught recruits the more difficult 
techniques necessary in a vacuum or in a harmful atmosphere. This involves not only pill-taking, 
but plugging one's ears and nostrils, and keeping one's mouth shut as well. Any effort to speak or 
to breathe would result in hemorrhages and probably death. 
Unk's mate was one of six instructresses at the Schliemann Breathing School for Recruits. Her 
classroom was a bare, windowless, whitewashed room, thirty feet square. Ranged around the 
walls were benches. 
On a table in the middle was a bowl of goofballs, a bowl of nose and ear plugs, a roll of 
adhesive plaster, scissors, and a small tape recorder. Purpose of the tape recorder was to play 
music during the long periods in which there was nothing to do but sit and wait patiently for 
nature to take its course. 
Such a period had been reached now. The class had just been dosed with goofballs. Now the 
students had to sit quietly on the benches and listen to music and wait for the goofballs to reach 
their small intestines. 
The tune being played had been pirated recently from an Earthling broadcast. It was a big hit 
on Earth — a trio composed for a boy, a girl, and cathedral bells. It was called "God Is Our 
Interior Decorator." The boy and girl sang alternate lines of the verses, and joined in close 
harmony on the choruses. 
The cathedral bells whanged and clanged whenever anything of a religious nature was 
mentioned. 
There were seventeen recruits. They were all in their newly issued lichen-green undershorts. 
The purpose of having them strip was to permit the instructress to see at a glance their external 
bodily reactions to Schliemann breathing. The recruits were fresh from amnesia treatments and antenna installations at the 
Reception 
Center Hospital. Their hair had been shaved off, and each recruit had a strip of adhesive plaster 
running from the crown of his head to the nape of his neck. 
The adhesive plaster showed where the antenna had been put in. 
The recruits' eyes were as empty as the windows of abandoned textile mills. 
So were the eyes of the instructress, since she, too, had recently had her memory cleaned out. 
When they released her from the hospital, they told her what her name was, and where she 
lived, and how to teach Schliemann breathing — and that was about all the factual information 
they gave her. There was one other item: they told her she had an eight-year-old son named 
Chrono, and that she could visit him at his school on Tuesday evenings, if she liked. 
The name of the instructress, of Chrono's mother, of Unk's mate, was Bee. She wore a lichengreen sweatsuit, white gym shoes, and, around her neck, a whistle on a chain and a stethoscope. 
There was a rebus of her name on her sweatshirt. 
She looked at the clock on the wall. Enough time had passed for the slowest digestive system 
to carry a goofball to the small intestine. She stood, turned off the tape recorder, and blew her 
whistle. "Fall in!" she said. 
The recruits had not yet had basic military training, so they were incapable of falling in with 
precision. Painted on the floor were squares within which the recruits were to stand in order to 
form ranks and files pleasing to the eye. A game resembling musical chairs was now played, 
with several empty-eyed recruits scuffling for the same square. In time, each found a square of 
his own. "All right," said Bee, "take your plugs and plug up your noses and ears, please." 
The recruits had been carrying the plugs in their clammy fists. They plugged their noses and 
ears. 
Bee now went from recruit to recruit, making certain that all ears and nostrils were sealed. 
"All right," she said, when her inspection was done. "Very good," she said. She took from the 
table the roll of adhesive plaster. "Now I am going to prove to you that you don't need to use 
your lungs at all, as long as you have Combat Respiratory Rations — or, as you'll soon be calling 
them in the Army, goofballs." She moved through the ranks, snipping off lengths of adhesive, 
sealing mouths with them. No one objected. When she got through, no one had a suitable 
aperture through which to issue an objection. 
She noted the time, and again turned on the music. For the next twenty minutes there would be 
nothing to do but watch the bare bodies for color changes, for the dying spasms in the sealed and 
useless lungs. Ideally, the bodies would turn blue, then red, then natural again within the twenty 
minutes — and the rib cages would quake violently, give up, be still. 
When the twenty-minute ordeal was over, every recruit would know how unnecessary lungbreathing was. Ideally, every recruit would be so confident in himself and goofballs, when his 
course of instruction was over, that he would be ready to spring out of a space ship on the 
Earthling moon or on the bottom of an Earthling ocean or anywhere, without wondering for a 
split second what he might be springing into. Bee sat on a bench. 
There were dark circles around her fine eyes. The circles had come after she left the hospital, 
and they had grown more somber with each passing day. At the hospital, they had promised her 
that she would become more serene and efficient with each passing day. And they had told her 
that, if through some fluke she should not find this to be the case, she was to report back to the 
hospital for more help. "We all need help from time to time," Dr. Morris N. Castle had said. "It's 
nothing to be 
ashamed of. Some day I may need your help, Bee, and I won't hesitate to ask for it." 
She had been sent to the hospital after showing her supervisor this sonnet, which she had 
written about Schliemann breathing: 
Break every link with air and mist, Seal every open vent; Make throat as tight as miser's fist, Keep life within you pent. 
Breathe out, breathe in, no more, no more, For breathing's for the meek; And when in deathly space we soar, Be careful not to speak. 
If you with grief or joy are rapt, Just signal with a tear; To soul and heart within you trapped Add speech and atmosphere. Every man's an island as in lifeless space we roam. Yes, every man's an island: island fortress, island home. 
Bee, who had been sent to the hospital for writing this poem, had a strong face — high cheekboned and haughty. She looked strikingly like an Indian brave. But whoever said so was under 
an obligation to add quickly that she was, all the same, quite beautiful. 
Now there was a sharp knock on Bee's door. Bee went to the door and opened it. "Yes?" she 
said. 
In the deserted corridor stood a red and sweating man in uniform. The uniform had no 
insignia. Slung on the man's back was a rifle. His eyes were deep-set and furtive. "Messenger," 
he said gruffly. "Message for Bee." "I'm Bee," said Bee uneasily. 
The messenger looked her up and down, made her feel naked. His body threw off heat, and the 
heat enveloped her suffocatingly. "Do you recognize me?" he whispered. 
"No," she said. His question relieved her a little. Apparently she had done business with him 
before. He and his visit, then, were routine — and, in the hospital, she had simply forgotten the 
man and his routine. "I don't remember you, either," he whispered. "I've been in the hospital," she said. "I had to have my memory cleaned." "Whisper!" he said sharply. 
"What?" said Bee. "Whisper!" he said. 
"Sorry," she whispered. Apparently whispering was part of the routine for dealing with this 
particular functionary. "I've forgotten so much." 
"We all have!" he whispered angrily. He again looked up and down the corridor. "You are the 
mother of Chrono, aren't you?" be whispered. "Yes," she whispered. 
Now the strange messenger concentrated his gaze on her face. He breathed deeply, sighed, 
frowned — blinked frequently. 
"What — what's the message?" whispered Bee, "The message is this," whispered the 
messenger. "I am the father of Chrono. I have just deserted from the Army. My name is Unk. I 
am going to find some way for you, me, the boy, and my best friend to escape from here. I don't 
know how yet, but you've got to be ready to go at a moment's notice!" He gave her a hand 
grenade. "Hide this somewhere," he whispered. "When the time comes, you may need it." 
Excited shouts came from the reception room at the far end of the corridor. " He said he was a confidential messenger!" shouted a man. "In a pig's eye he's a messenger!" shouted another. "He's a deserter in time of 
war! Who'd he 
come to see?" 
"He didn't say. He said it was top secret!" 
A whistle shrilled. 
"Six of you come with me!" shouted a man. "We'll search this place room by room. The rest of 
you surround the outside!" 
Unk shoved Bee and her hand grenade into the room, shut the door. He unslung his rifle, 
leveled it at the plugged and taped recruits. "One peep, one funny move out of any of you guys," 
he said, "and you'll all be dead." 
The recruits, standing rigidly on their assigned squares on the floor, did not respond in any 
way. 
They were pale blue. 
Their rib cages were quaking. 
The whole awareness of each man was concentrated in the region of a small, white, life-giving 
pill dissolving in the duodenum. 
"Where can I hide?" said Unk. "How can I get out?" It was unnecessary for Bee to reply. 
There was no place to hide. There was no way out save through the door to the corridor. 
There was only one thing to do, and Unk did it. He stripped to his lichen-green undershorts, 
hid his rifle under a bench, put plugs in his ears and nostrils, taped his mouth, and stood among 
the recruits. 
His head was shaved, just like the heads of the recruits. And, like the recruits, Unk had a strip 
of adhesive plaster running from the crown of his head to the nape of his neck. He had been such 
a terrible soldier that the doctors had opened his head up at the hospital to see if he might not be 
suffering from malfunctioning antenna. 
Bee surveyed the room with enchanted calm. She held the grenade that Unk had given her as 
though it were a vase with one perfect rose in it. Then she went to the place where Unk had 
hidden his rifle, and she put the grenade beside it — put it there neatly, with a decent respect for 
another's property. Then she went back to her post at the table. 
She neither stared at Unk nor avoided looking at him. As they told her at the hospital: she had 
been very, very sick, and she would be very, very sick again if she didn't keep her mind strictly 
on her work and let other people do the thinking and the worrying. At all costs, she was to keep 
calm. 
The blustering false alarms of the men making the room-to-room search were approaching 
slowly. 
Bee refused to worry about anything. Unk, by taking his place among the recruits, had reduced 
himself to a cipher. Considering him professionally, Bee saw that Unk's body was turning bluegreen rather than pure blue. This might mean that he had not taken a goofball for several hours 
— in which case he would soon keel over 
To have him keel over would certainly be the most peaceful solution to the problem he 
presented, and Bee wanted peace above all else. 
She didn't doubt that Unk was the father of her child. Life was like that. She didn't remember 
him, and she didn't bother now to study him in order to recognize him the next time — if there 
was going to be a next time. She had no use for him. 
She noted that Unk's body was now predominantly green. Her diagnosis had been correct, 
then. He would keel over at any minute. 
Bee daydreamed. She daydreamed of a little girl in a starched white dress and white gloves 
and white shoes, and with a white pony all her own. Bee envied that little girl who had kept so 
clean. 
Bee wondered who the little girl was. Unk fell noiselessly, as limp as a bag of eels. 
Unk awoke, found himself on his back in a bunk in a space ship. The cabin lights were 
dazzling. Unk started to yell, but a sick headache shushed him. 
He struggled to his feet, clung drunkenly to the pipe supports of the bunk. He was all alone. 
Someone had put his uniform back on him. He thought at first that he had been launched into space eternal. 
But then he saw that the airlock was open to the outside, and that outside was solid ground. 
Unk lurched out through the airlock and threw up. He raised his watering eyes, and saw that 
he was seemingly still on Mars, or on something a lot like Mars. 
It was night time. 
The iron plain was studded with ranks and files of space ships. 
As Unk watched, a file of ships five miles long arose from the formation, sailed melodiously 
off into space. A dog barked, barked with a voice like a great bronze gong. And out of the night loped the dog — as big and terrible as a tiger. "Kazak!" cried a man in the dark. 
The dog stopped at the command, but he held link at bay, kept Unk flattened against the space 
ship with the threat of his long, wet fangs. 
The dog's master appeared, the beam of a flashlight dancing before him. When he got within a 
few yards of Unk, he placed the flashlight under his chin. The contrasting beam and shadows 
made his face look like the face of a demon. 
"Hello, Unk," he said. He turned the flashlight off, stepped to one side so that he was 
illuminated by the light spilling from the space ship. He was big, vaguely soft, marvelously selfassured. He wore the bloodred uniform and square-toed boots of a Parachute Ski Marine. He was 
unarmed save for a black and gold swaggerstick one foot long. 
"Long time no see," he said. He gave a very small, v-shaped smile. His voice was a glottal 
tenor, a yodel. 
Unk had no recollection of the man, but the man obviously knew Unk well — knew him 
warmly. "Who am I, Unk?" said the man gayly. 
Unk gasped. This had to be Stony Stevenson, had to be Unk's fearless best friend. "Stony?" he 
whispered. 
"Stony?" said the man. He laughed. "Oh, God — " he said, "many's the time I've wished I was 
Stony, and many's the time I'll wish it again." 
The ground shook. There was a whirlwind rush in the air. Neighboring space ships on all sides 
had leaped into the air, were gone. 
Unk's ship now had its sector of the iron plain all to itself. The nearest ships on the ground 
were perhaps half a mile away. 
"There goes your regiment, Unk," said the man, "and you not with them. Aren't you 
ashamed?" "Who are you?" said Unk. 
"What do names matter in wartime?" said the man. He put his big hand on Unk's shoulder. 
"Oh, Unk, Unk, Unk," he said, "what a time you've had." 
"Who brought me here?" said Unk. 
"The military police, bless them," said the man. 
Unk shook his head. Tears ran down his cheeks. He was defeated. There was no reason for 
secrecy any more, even in the presence of someone who might have the power of life and death 
over him. As to life and death, poor Unk was indifferent. "I — I tried to bring my family 
together," he said. "That's all." 
"Mars is a very bad place for love, a very bad place for a family man, Unk," said the man. 
The man was, of course, Winston Niles Rumfoord. He was commander-in-chief 
of everything 
Martian. He was not actually a practicing Parachute Ski Marine. But he was free to wear any 
uniform that caught his fancy, regardless of how much hell anybody else had to go through for 
the privilege. 
"Unk," said Rumfoord, "the very saddest love story I ever hope to hear took place on Mars. 
Would you like to hear it?" 
"Once upon a time," said Rumfoord, "there was a man being carried from Earth to Mars in a 
flying saucer. He had volunteered for the Army of Mars, and already wore the dashing uniform 
of a lieutenant-colonel in the Assault Infantry of that service. He felt elegant, indeed, having 
been rather underprivileged spiritually on Earth, and assumed, as spiritually underprivileged 
persons will, that the uniform said lovely things about him. 
"His memory hadn't been cleaned out yet, and his antenna had yet to be installed — but he was 
so patently a loyal Martian that he was given the. run of the space ship. The recruiters have a 
saying about a male recruit like that — that he has named his balls Deimos and Phobus," said 
Rumfoord, "Deimos and Phobus being the two moons of Mars. "This lieutenant-colonel, with no military training whatsoever, was having the 
experience 
known on Earth as finding himself. Ignorant as he was of the enterprise in which he was 
ensnarled, he was issuing orders to the other recruits, and having them obeyed." 
Rumfoord held up a finger, and Unk was startled to see that it was quite translucent. "There 
was one locked stateroom that the man was not permitted to enter," said Rumfoord. "The crew 
carefully explained to him that the stateroom contained the most beautiful woman ever taken to 
Mars, and that any man who saw her was certain to fall in love with her. Love, they said, would 
destroy the value of any but the most professional soldier. 
"The new lieutenant-colonel was offended by the suggestion that he was not a professional 
soldier, and he regaled the crew with stories of his amatory exploits with gorgeous women — all 
of which had left his heart absolutely untouched. The crew remained skeptical, pretending to the 
opinion that the lieutenant-colonel had never, for all his lascivious questing, exposed himself to 
an intelligent, haughty beauty such as the one in the locked stateroom. 
"The crew's seeming respect for the lieutenant-colonel was now subtly withdrawn. The other 
recruits sensed this withdrawal, and withdrew their own. The lieutenant-colonel in his gaudy 
uniform was made to feel like what he really was, after all — a strutting clown. The manner in 
which he could win back his dignity was never stated, but was obvious to one and all. He could 
win it back by making a conquest of the beauty locked in the stateroom. He was fully prepared to 
do this — was desperately prepared — 
"But the crew," said Rumfoord, "continued to protect him from supposed amatory failure and 
a broken heart. His ego fizzed, it sizzled, it snapped, it crackled, it popped. 
"There was a drinking party in the officers' mess," said Rumfoord, "and the lieutenant-colonel 
became quite drunk and loud. He bragged again of his heartless lewdnesses on Earth. And then 
he saw that someone had placed in the bottom of his glass a stateroom key. 
"The lieutenant-colonel sneaked away to the locked stateroom forthwith, let himself in, and 
closed the door behind him," said Rumfoord. "The stateroom was dark, but the inside of the 
lieutenant-colonel's head was illuminated by liquor and by the triumphant words of the 
announcement he would make at breakfast the next morning. 
"He took the woman in the dark easily, for she was weak with terror and sedatives," said 
Rumfoord. "It was a joyless union, satisfactory to no one but Mother Nature at her most callous. 
"The lieutenant-colonel did not feel marvelous. He felt wretched. Foolishly, he turned on the 
light, hoping to find in the woman's appearance some cause for pride in his brutishness," said 
Rumfoord sadly. "Huddled on the bunk was a rather plain woman past thirty. Her eyes were red 
and her face was puffy with weeping, despair. 
"The lieutenant-colonel, moreover, knew her. She was a woman that a fortune teller had 
promised him would one day bear his child," said Rumfoord. "She bad been so high and proud 
the last time he saw her, and was now so crushed, that even the heartless lieutenant-colonel was 
moved. 
"The lieutenant-colonel realized for the first time what most people never realize about 
themselves — that he was not only a victim of outrageous fortune, hilt one of outrageous 
fortune's cruelest agents as well. The woman had regarded him as a pig when they met before. 
He had now proved beyond question that he was a pig. 
"As the crew had predicted," said Rumfoord, "the lieutenant-colonel was spoiled forever as a 
soldier. He became hopelessly engrossed in the intricate tactics of causing less rather than more 
pain. Proof of his success would be his winning of the woman's forgiveness and 
understanding. 
"When the space ship reached Mars, he learned from loose talk in the Reception Center 
Hospital that he was about to have his memory taken away. He thereupon wrote himself the first 
of a series of letters that listed the things he did not want to forget. The first letter was all about 
the woman he had wronged. 
"He looked for her after his amnesia treatment, and found that she had no recollection of him. 
Not only that, she was pregnant, carrying his child. His problem, thereupon, became to win her 
love, and through her, to win the love of her child. 
"This he attempted to do, Unk," said Rumfoord, "not once, but many times. He was 
consistently defeated. But it remained the central problem of his life — probably because he 
himself had come from a shattered family. 
"What defeated him, Unk," said Rumfoord, "was a congenital coldness on the part of the 
woman, and a system of psychiatry that took the ideals of Martian society as noble common 
sense. Each time the man wobbled his mate, utterly humorless psychiatry straightened her out — 
made her an efficient citizen again. "Both the man and his mate were frequent visitors. to the psychiatric wards of 
their respective 
hospitals. And it is perhaps food for thought," said Rumford, "that this supremely frustrated man 
was the only Martian to write a philosophy, and that this supremely self- frustrating woman was 
the only Martian to write a poem." 
Boaz arrived at the company mother ship from the town of Phoebe, where he had gone to look 
for Unk. "God damn — " he said to Rumfoord, "everybody go and leave without us?" He was on 
a bicycle. 
He saw Unk. "God damn, buddy," he said to Unk, "boy — you ever put your buddy through 
hell. I mean! How you get here?" 
"Military police," said Unk. 
"The way everybody gets everywhere," said Rumford lightly. 
"We got to catch up, buddy," said Boaz. "Them boys ain't going to attack, if they don't have a 
mother ship along. What they going to fight for?" 
"For the privilege of being the first army that ever died in a good cause," said Rumford. 
"How's that?" said. Boaz. "Never mind," said Rumford. "You boys just get on board, close the airlock, 
push the on button. You'll catch up before you know it. Everything's all fully automatic." 
Unk and Boaz got on board. 
Rumfoord held open the outer door of the airlock. "Boaz — " he said, "that red button on the 
center shaft there — that's the on button." "I know," said Boaz. "Unk — " said Rumfoord. "Yes?" said Unk emptily. 
"That story I told you — the love story? I left out one thing." "That so?" said Unk. 
"The woman in the love story — the woman who had that man's baby?" said Rumfoord. "The 
woman who was the only poet on Mars?" 
"What about her?" said Unk. He didn't care much about her. He hadn't caught on that the 
woman in Rumfoord's story was Bee, was his own mate. 
"She'd been married for several years before she got to Mars," said Rumford. "But when the 
hot-shot lieutenant-colonel got to her there in the space ship bound for Mars, she was still a 
virgin." 
Winston Niles Rumfoord winked at Unk before shutting the outside door of the airlock. 
"Pretty good joke on her husband, eh, Unk?" he said. 
CHAPTER SEVEN 
VICTORY 
"There is no reason why good cannot triumph as 
often as evil. The triumph of anything is a matter of 
organization. If there are such things as angels, I hope 
that they are organized, along the lines of the Mafia." 
— WINSTON NILES RUMFOORD 
It has been said that Earthling civilization, so far, has created ten thousand wars, but only three 
intelligent commentaries on war — the commentaries of Thucydides, of Julius Caesar and of 
Winston Niles Rumfoord. Winston Niles Rumfoord chose 75,000 words so well, for his Pocket History of 
Mars that nothing remains to be said, or to be said better, about the war between Earth and 
Mars. Anyone 
who finds himself obliged, in the course of a history, to describe the war between Earth and Mars 
is humbled by the realization that the tale has already been told to glorious perfection by 
Rumfoord. 
The usual course for such a discomfited historian is to describe the war in the barest, flattest, 
most telegraphic terms, and to recommend that the reader go at once to Rumfoord's masterpiece. 
Such a course is followed here. 
The war between Mars and Earth lasted 67 Earthling days. 
Every nation on Earth was attacked. 
Earth's casualties were 461 killed, 223 wounded, none captured, and 216 missing. 
Mars' casualties were 149,315 killed, 446 wounded, 11 captured, and 46,634 missing. 
At the end of the war, every Martian had been killed, wounded, captured, or been found 
missing. Not a soul was left on Mars. Not a building was left standing on Mars. 
The last waves of Martians to attack Earth were, to the horror of the Earthlings who potshotted them, old men, women, and a few little children. 
The Martians arrived in the most brilliantly-conceived space vehicles ever known in the Solar 
System. And, as long as the Martian troops had their real commanders to radio- control them, 
they fought with a steadfastness, selflessness, and a will to close with the enemy that won the 
grudging admiration of everyone who fought them. 
It was frequently the case, however, that the troops lost their real commanders, either in the air 
or on the ground. When that happened, the troops became sluggish at once. 
Their biggest trouble, however, was that they were scarcely better armed than a big-city police 
department. They fought with firearms, grenades, knives, mortars, and small rocket-launchers. 
They had no nuclear weapons, no tanks, no medium or heavy artillery, no air cover, and no 
transport once they hit the ground. 
The Martian troops, moreover, had no control over where their ships were to land. Their ships 
were controlled by fully automatic pilot-navigators, and these electronic devices were set by 
technicians on Mars so as to make the ships land at particular points on Earth, regardless of how 
awful the military situation might be down there. 
The only controls available to those on board were two push-buttons on the center post of the 
cabin — one labeled on and one labeled off. The on button simply started a flight from Mars. The 
off button was connected to nothing. It was installed at the insistence of Martian mental-health 
experts, who said that human beings were always happier with machinery they thought they 
could turn off. 
The war between Earth and Mars began when 500 Martian Imperial Commandos took 
possession of the Earthling moon on April 23. They were unopposed. The only 
Earthlings on the 
moon at the time were 18 Americans in the Jefferson Observatory, 53 Russians in the Lenin 
Observatory, and four Danish geologists at large in the Mare Imbrium. 
The Martians announced their presence by radio to Earth, demanded Earth's surrender. And 
they gave Earth what they described as "a taste of hell." 
This taste, to Earth's considerable amusement, turned out to be a very light shower of rockets 
carrying twelve pounds apiece of TNT. 
After giving Earth this taste of hell, the Martians told Earth that Earth's situation was hopeless. 
Earth thought otherwise. 
In the next twenty-four hours, Earth fired 617 thermo-nuclear devices at the Martian 
bridgehead on the moon. Of these 276 were hits. These hits not only vaporized the bridgehead — 
they rendered the moon unfit for human occupation for at least ten million years. 
And, in a freak of war, one wild shot missed the moon and hit an incoming formation of space 
ships that carried 15,671 Martian Imperial Commandos. That took care of all the Martian 
Imperial Commandos there were. 
They wore knee spikes, and glossy black uniforms, and carried 14-inch, saw- toothed knives in 
their boots. Their insignia was a skull and crossbones. 
Their motto was Per aspera ad astra, the same as the motto of Kansas, U.S.A., Earth, Solar 
System, Milky Way. 
There was then a lull of thirty-two days, the length of time it took for the main Martian 
striking force to cross the void between the two planets. This hammer blow consisted of 81,932 
troops in 2,311 ships. Every military unit, save for the Martian Imperial Commandos, was 
represented. Earth was spared suspense as to when this terrible armada might arrive. The Martian 
broadcasters on the moon, before being vaporized, had promised the arrival of this irresistible 
force in thirty-two days. 
In thirty-two days, four hours, and fifteen minutes, the Martian Armada flew into a radardirected thermonuclear barrage. The official estimate of the number of thermo-nuclear antiaircraft rockets fired at the Martian armada is 2,542,670. The actual number of rockets fired is of 
little interest when one can express the power of that barrage in another way, in a way that 
happens to be both poetry and truth. The barrage turned the skies of Earth from heavenly blue to 
a hellish burnt orange. The skies remained burnt orange for a year and a half. 
Of the mighty Martian Armada, only 761 ships carrying 26,635 troops survived the barrage 
and landed on Earth. 
Had all these ships landed at one point, the survivors might have made a stand. But the 
electronic pilot-navigators of the ships had other ideas. The pilot-navigators scattered the 
remnants of the armada far and wide over the surface of the Earth. Squads, platoons, and 
companies emerged from the ships everywhere, demanding that nations of millions give in. 
A single, badly scorched man named Krishna Garu attacked all of India with a double-barreled 
shotgun. Though there was no one to radio-control him, he did not surrender until his gun blew 
up. 
The only Martian military success was the capture of a meat market in Basel, Switzerland, by 
seventeen Parachute Ski Marines. 
Everywhere else the Martians were butchered promptly, before they could even dig in. 
As much butchering was done by amateurs as by professionals. At the Battle of Boca Raton, in 
Florida, U.S.A., for instance, Mrs. Lyman R. Peterson shot four members of the Martian Assault 
Infantry with her son's .22 caliber rifle. She picked them off as they came out of their space ship, 
which had landed in her back yard. 
She was awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor posthumously. 
The Martians who attacked Boca Raton, incidentally, were the remains of Unk's and Boaz's 
company. Without Boaz, their real commander, to radio-control them, they fought listlessly, to 
say the least. 
When American troops arrived at Boca Raton to fight the Martians, there was nothing left to 
fight. The civilians, flushed and proud, had taken care of everything nicely. Twenty-three 
Martians had been hanged from lamp posts in the business district, eleven had been shot dead, 
and one, Sergeant Brackman, was a grievously wounded prisoner in the jail. The total attacking force had been thirty-five. "Send us more Martians," said Ross L. McSwann, the Mayor of Boca Raton. He later became a United States Senator. 
And everywhere the Martians were killed and killed and killed, until the only Martians left 
free and standing on the face of the Earth were the Parachute Ski Marines carousing in the meat 
market in Basel, Switzerland. They were told by loudspeaker that their situation was hopeless, 
that bombers were overhead, that all streets were blocked by tanks and crack infantry, and that 
fifty artillery pieces were trained on the meat market. They were told to come out with their 
hands up, or the meat market would be blown to bits. 
"Nuts!" yelled the real commander of the Parachute Ski Marines. 
There was another lull. 
A single Martian scout ship far out in space broad. cast to Earth that another attack was on its 
way, an attack more terrible than anything ever known in the annals of war. 
Earth laughed and got ready. All around the globe there was the cheerful popping away of 
amateurs familiarizing themselves with small arms. 
Fresh stocks of thermo-nuclear devices were delivered to the launching pads, and nine 
tremendous rockets were fired at Mars itself. One hit Mars, wiped the town of Phoebe and the 
army camp off the face of the planet. Two others disappeared in a chrono- synclastic 
infundibulum. The rest became space derelicts. 
It did not matter that Mars was hit. 
There was no one there any more — not a soul. 
The last of the Martians were on their way to Earth. 
The last of the Martians were coming in three waves. 
In the first wave came the army reserves, the last of the trained troops — 26,119 men in 721 
ships. A half an Earthling day behind them came 86,912 recently-armed male civilians 
in 1,788 
ships. They had no uniforms, had fired their rifles only once, and had no training at all in the use 
of any other weapons. 
A half an Earthling day behind these wretched irregulars came 1,391 unarmed women and 52 
children in 46 ships. 
That was all the people and all the ships that Mars had left. 
The mastermind behind the Martian suicide was Winston Niles Rumfoord. 
The elaborate suicide of Mars was financed by capital gains on investments in land, securities, 
Broadway shows, and inventions. Since Rumfoord could see into the future, it was easy as pie 
for him to make money grow. 
The Martian treasury was kept in Swiss banks, in accounts identified only by code numbers. 
The man who managed the Martian investments, headed the Martian Procurement Program 
and the Martian Secret Service on Earth, the man who took orders directly from Rumfoord, was 
Earl Moncrief, the ancient Rumfoord butler. Moncrief, given the opportunity at the very close of 
his servile life, became Rumfoord's ruthless, effective, and even brilliant Prime Minister of 
Earthling Affairs. 
Moncrief's façade remained unchanged. 
Moncrief died of old age in his bed in the servants' wing of the Rumfoord mansion two weeks 
after the war ended. 
The person chiefly responsible for the technological triumphs of the Martian suicide was Salo, 
Rumfoord's friend on Titan. Salo was a messenger from the planet Tralfamadore in the Small 
Magellanic Cloud. Salo had technological know-how from a civilization that was millions of 
Earthling years old. Salo had a space ship that was crippled — but, even in its crippled condition, 
it was by far the most marvelous space ship that the Solar System had ever seen. His crippled 
ship, stripped of luxury features, was the prototype of all the ships of Mars. While Salo himself 
was not a very good engineer, he was none the less able to measure every part of his ship, and to 
draw up the plans for its Martian descendants. 
Most important of all — Salo had in his possession a quantity of the most powerful 
conceivable source of energy, UWTB, or the Universal Will to Become. Salo generously donated 
half of his supply of UWTB to the suicide of Mars. 
Earl Moncrief, the butler, built his financial, procurement, and secret service organizations 
with the brute power of cash and a profound understanding of clever, malicious, discontented 
people who lived behind servile façades. 
It was such people who took the Martian money and the Martian orders gladly. They asked no 
questions. They were grateful for the opportunity to work like termites on the sills of the 
established order. They came from all walks of life. 
The modified plans of Salo's space ship were broken down into plans for components. The 
plans for the components were taken by Moncrief's agents to manufacturers all over the world. 
The manufacturers had no idea what the components were for. They knew only that the profits 
on making them were fine. 
The first one hundred Martian ships were assembled by Moncrief's agents in secret depots 
right on Earth. 
These ships were charged with UWTB given to Moncrief by Rumfoord at Newport. They 
were put into service at once, shuttling the first machines and the first recruits to the iron plain on 
Mars where the city of Phoebe would rise. When Phoebe did rise, every wheel was turned by Salo's UWTB. 
It was Rumfoord's intention that Mars should lose the war — that Mars should lose it foolishly 
and horribly. As a seer of the future, Rumfoord knew for certain that this would be the case — 
and he was content. 
He wished to change the World for the better by means of the great and unforgettable suicide 
of Mars. 
As he says in his Pocket History of Mars: "Any man who would change the World in a 
significant way must have showmanship, a genial willingness to shed other people's blood, and a 
plausible new religion to introduce during the brief period of repentance and horror that usually 
follows bloodshed. 
"Every failure of Earthling leadership has been traceable to a lack on the part of the leader," 
says Rumfoord, "of at least one of these three things. 
"Enough of these fizzles of leadership, in which millions die for nothing or less!" says 
Rumfoord. "Let us have, for a change, a magnificently-led few who die for a great deal." 
Rumfoord had that magnificently-led few on Mars — and he was their leader. He had showmanship. He was genially willing to shed the blood of others. 
He had a plausible new religion to introduce at the war's end. 
And he had methods for prolonging the period of repentance and horror that would follow the 
war. These methods were variations on one theme: That Earth's glorious victory over Mars had 
been a tawdry butchery of virtually unarmed saints, saints who had waged feeble war on Earth in 
order to weld the peoples of that planet into a monolithic Brotherhood of Man. 
The woman called Bee and her son, Chrono, were in the very last wave of Martian ships to 
approach Earth. Theirs was a wavelet, really, composed, as it was, of only forty- six ships. 
The rest of the fleet had already gone down to destruction. 
This last incoming wave, or wavelet, was detected by Earth. But thermo-nuclear devices were 
not fired at it. There were no more thermo-nuclear devices to fire. 
They had all been used up. 
And the wavelet came in unscathed. It was scattered over the face of the Earth. 
The few people who were lucky enough to have Martians to shoot at in this last wave fired 
away happily — fired away happily until they discovered that their targets were unarmed women 
and children. The glorious war was over. Shame, as Rumfoord had planned it, began to set in. 
The ship carrying Bee and Chrono and twenty-two other women was not fired upon when it 
landed. It did not land in a civilized area. 
It crashed into the Amazon Rain Forest in Brazil. 
Only Bee and Chrono survived. 
Chrono emerged, kissed his good-luck piece. 
Unk and Boaz weren't fired upon either. 
A very peculiar thing happened to them after they pressed the on button and took off from 
Mars. They expected to overtake their company, but they never did. They never even saw another space ship. 
The explanation was simple, though there was no one around to make it: Unk and Boaz 
weren't supposed to go to Earth — not right away. 
Rumfoord had had their automatic pilot-navigator set so that the ship would carry Unk and 
Boaz to the planet Mercury first — and then from Mercury to Earth. 
Rumfoord didn't want Unk killed in the war. Rumfoord wanted Unk to stay in some safe place 
for about two years. And then Rumfoord wanted Unk to appear on Earth, as though by a miracle. 
Rumfoord was preserving Unk for a major part in a pageant Rumfoord wanted to stage for his 
new religion. 
Unk and Boaz were very lonely and mystified out there in space. There wasn't much to see or 
do. "God damn, Unk — " said Boaz. "I wonder where the gang got to." 
Most of the gang was hanging, at that moment, from' lamp posts in the business district of 
Boca Raton. 
Unk's and Boaz's automatic pilot-navigator, controlling the cabin lights, among other things, 
created an artificial cycle of Earthling nights and days, nights and days, nights and days. 
The only things to read on board were two comic books left behind by the shipfitters. They 
were Tweety and Sylvester, which was about a canary that drove a cat crazy, and The Miserable 
Ones, which was about a man who stole some gold candlesticks from a priest who had been nice 
to him. "What he take those candlesticks for, Unk?" said Boaz. 
"Damn if I know," said Unk. "Damn if I care." The pilot-navigator had just turned out the 
cabin lights, had just decreed that it be night inside. "You don't give a damn for nothing, do you?" said Boaz in the dark. 
"That's right," said Unk. "I don't even give a damn for that thing you've got in your pocket." 
"What I got in my pocket?" said Boaz. 
"A thing to hurt people with," said Unk. "A thing to make people do whatever you want 'em to 
do." 
Unk heard Boaz grunt, then groan softly, there in the dark. And he knew that Boaz had just 
pressed a button on the thing in his pocket, a button that was supposed to knock Unk cold. 
Unk didn't make a sound. "Unk — ?" said Boaz. "Yeah?" said Unk. "You there, buddy?" said Boaz, amazed. "Where would I go?" said Unk. "You think you vaporized me?" "You O.K., buddy?" said Boaz. 
"Why wouldn't I be, buddy?" said Unk. "Last night, while you were asleep, old buddy, I took 
that fool thing out of your pocket, old buddy, and I opened it up, old buddy, and I tore the insides 
out of it, old buddy, and I stuffed it with toilet paper. And now I'm sitting on my bunk, old 
buddy, and I've got my rifle loaded, old buddy, and it's aimed in your direction, old buddy, and 
just what the hell do you think you're going to do about anything?" 
Rumfoord materialized on Earth, in Newport, twice during the war between Mars and Earth — 
once just after the war started, and again on the day it ended. He and his dog had, at that time, no 
particular religious significance. They were merely tourist attractions. 
The Rumfoord estate had been leased by the mortgage holders to a showman named Marlin T. 
Lapp. Lapp sold tickets to materializations for a dollar apiece. 
Save for the appearance and then the disappearance of Rumfoord and his dog, it wasn't much 
of a show. Rumfoord wouldn't say a word to anyone but Moncrief, the butler, and he whispered 
to him. He would slouch broodingly in a wing chair in the room under the staircase, in Skip's 
Museum. And he would cover his eyes with one hand and twine the fingers of his other hand 
around Kazak's choke chain. Rumfoord and Kazak were billed as ghosts. 
There was a scaffolding outside the window of the little room, and the door to the corridor had 
been removed. Two lines of sightseers could file past for a peek at the chrono- synclastic 
infundibulated man and dog. 
"I guess he don't feel much like talking today, folks," Marlin T. Lapp would say. "You got to 
realize he's got a lot to think about. He isn't just here, folks. Him and his dog are spread all the 
way from the Sun to Betelgeuse." 
Until the last day of the war, all the action and all the noise was provided by Marlin T. Lapp. 
"I think it's wonderful of all you people, on this great day in the history of the world, to come and 
see this great cultural and educational and scientific exhibit," Lapp said on the last day of the 
war. 
"If this ghost ever speaks," said Lapp, "he is going to tell us of wonders in the past and the 
future, and of things in the Universe as yet undreamed of. I just hope some of you are lucky 
enough to be here when he decides the time is ripe to tell us all he can." 
"The time is ripe," said Rumfoord hollowly. 
"The time is rotten-ripe," said Winston Niles Rumfoord. 
"The war that ends so gloriously today was glorious only for the saints who lost it. Those 
saints were Earthlings like yourselves. They went to Mars, mounted their hopeless attacks, and 
died gladly, in order that Earthlings might at last become one people — joyful, fraternal, and 
proud. 
"Their wish, when they died," said Rumfoord, "was not for paradise for themselves, but that 
the brotherhood of mankind on Earth might be enduring. 
"To that end, devoutly to be wished," said Rumfoord, "I bring you word of a new religion that 
can be received enthusiastically in every corner of every Earthling heart. "National borders," said Rumfoord, "will disappear. "The lust for war," said Rumfoord, "will die. "All envy, all fear, all hate will die," said Rumfoord. 
"The name of the new religion," said Rumfoord, "is The Church of God the Utterly 
Indifferent. 
"The flag of that church will be blue and gold," said Rumfoord. "These words will be written 
on that flag in gold letters on a blue field: Take Care of the People, and God Almighty Will Take 
Care of Himself. "The two chief teachings of this religion are these," said Rumfoord: "Puny man 
can do nothing at all to help or please God Almighty, and Luck is not the hand of God. 
"Why should you believe in this religion, rather than any other?" said Rumfoord. "You should 
believe in it because I, as head of this religion, can work miracles, and the head of no other 
religion can. What miracles can I work? I can work the miracle of predicting, with absolute 
accuracy, the things that the future will bring." Rumfoord thereupon predicted fifty future events in great detail. These predictions were carefully recorded by those present. 
Needless to say, they all came true eventually — came true in great detail. 
"The teachings of this religion will seem subtle and confusing at first," said Rumfoord. "But 
they will become beautiful and crystal clear as time goes by. "As a presently confusing beginning," said Rumfoord, "I shall tell you a parable: 
"Once upon a time, luck arranged things so that a baby named Malachi Constant was born the 
richest child on Earth. On the same day, luck arranged things so that a blind grandmother stepped 
on a rollerskate at the head of a flight of cement stairs, a policeman's horse stepped on an organgrinder's monkey, and a paroled bank robber found a postage stamp worth nine hundred dollars 
in the bottom of a trunk in his attic. I ask you — is luck the hand of God?" 
Rumfoord held up an index finger that was as translucent as a Limoges teacup. "During my 
next visit with you, fellow-believers," he said. "I shall tell you a parable about people who do 
things that they think God Almighty wants done. In the meanwhile, you would do well, for 
background on this parable, to read everything 'that you can lay your hands on about the Spanish 
Inquisition. 
"The next time I come to you," said Rumfoord, "I shall bring you a Bible, revised so as to be 
meaning. ful in modern times. And I shall bring you a short history of Mars, a true history of the 
saints who died in order that the world might be united as the Brotherhood of Man. This history 
will break the heart of every human being who has a heart that can be broken." Rumfoord and his dog dematerialized abruptly. 
On the space ship out of Mars and bound for Mercury, on the space ship carrying Unk and 
Boaz, the automatic pilot-navigator decreed that it be day in the cabin again. 
It was the dawn following the night in which Unk had told Boaz that the thing in Boaz's 
pocket couldn't hurt. anybody any more. 
Unk was asleep on his bunk in a sitting position. His Mauser rifle, loaded and cocked, lay 
across his knees. 
Boaz was not asleep. He was lying on his bunk across the cabin from Unk. Boaz had not slept 
a wink. He could now, if he wanted to, disarm and kill Unk easily. 
But Boaz had decided that he needed a buddy far more than he needed a means of making 
people do exactly what he wanted them to. During the night, he had become very unsure of what 
he wanted people to do, anyway. 
Not to be lonely, not to be scared — Boaz had decided that those were the important things in 
life. A real buddy could help more than anything. The cabin was filled with a strange, rustling, coughing sound. It was laughter. It 
was Boaz's 
laughter. What made it so strange was that Boaz had never laughed in that particular way before 
— had never laughed before at the things he was laughing at now. 
He was laughing at the ferocious mess he was in — at the way he had pretended all his army 
life that he had understood everything that was going on, and that everything that was going on 
was just fine. 
He was laughing at the dumb way he had let himself be used — by God knows who for God 
knows what. 
"Holy smokes, buddy," he said out loud, "what we doing way out here in space? What we 
doing in these here clothes? Who's steering this fool thing? How come we climbed into this tin 
can? How come we got to shoot somebody when we get to where we're going? How come he got 
to try and shoot us? How come?" said Boaz. "Buddy," he said, "you tell me how come?" 
Unk woke up, swung the muzzle of his Mauser around to Boaz. 
Boaz went right on laughing. He took the control box out of his pocket, and he threw it on the 
floor. "I don't want it, buddy," he said. "That's O.K. you went and tore its insides out. I don't 
want it." 
And then he yelled, "I don't want none of this crap!" 
CHAPTER EIGHT IN A HOLLYWOOD NIGHT CLUB 
HARMONIUM — The only known form of life on 
the planet Mercury. The harmonium is a cave-dweller. 
A more gracious creature would be hard to imagine. 
— A Child's Cyclopedia 
of Wonders and Things to Do. 
The planet Mercury sings like a crystal goblet. It sings all the time. 
One side of Mercury faces the Sun. That side has always faced the Sun. That side is a sea of 
white-hot. dust. 
The other side faces the nothingness of space eternal. That side has always faced the 
nothingness of space eternal. That side is a forest of giant blue-white crystals, aching cold. 
It is the tension between the hot hemisphere of day-without-end and the cold hemisphere of 
night-without-end that makes Mercury sing. Mercury has no atmosphere, so the song it sings is for the sense of touch. 
The song is a slow one. Mercury will hold a single note in the song for as long as an Earthling 
millennium. There are those who think that the song was quick, wild, and brilliant once — 
excruciatingly various. Possibly so. There are creatures in the deep caves of Mercury. 
The song their planet sings is important to them, for the creatures are nourished by vibrations. 
They feed on mechanical energy. 
The creatures cling to the singing walls of their caves. 
In that way, they eat the song of Mercury. 
The caves of Mercury are cozily warm in their depths. 
The walls of the caves in their depths are phosphorescent. They give off a jonquil-yellow light. 
The creatures in the caves are translucent. When they cling to the walls, light from the 
phosphorescent walls comes right through them. The yellow light from the walls, however, is 
turned, when passed through the bodies of the creatures, to a vivid aquamarine. 
The creatures in the caves look very much like small and spineless kites. They are diamondshaped, a foot high and eight inches wide when fully mature. 
They have no more thickness than the skin of a toy balloon. 
Each creature has four feeble suction cups — one at each of its corners. These cups enable it 
to creep, something like a measuring worm, and to cling, and to feel out the places where the 
song of Mercury is best. 
Having found a place that promises a good meal, the creatures lay themselves against the wall 
like wet wallpaper. 
There is no need for a circulatory system in the creatures. They are so thin that life-giving 
vibrations can make all their cells tingle without intermediaries. The creatures do not excrete. 
The creatures reproduce by flaking. The young, when shed by a parent, axe indistinguishable 
from dandruff. There is only one sex. 
Every creature simply sheds flakes of his own kind, and his own kind is like everybody else's 
kind. 
There is no childhood as such. Flakes begin flaking three Earthling hours after they 
themselves have been shed. 
They do not reach maturity, then deteriorate and die. They reach maturity and stay in full 
bloom, so to speak, for as long as Mercury cares to sing. 
There is no way in which one creature can harm another, and no motive for one's harming 
another. 
Hunger, envy, ambition, fear, indignation, religion, and sexual lust are irrelevant and 
unknown. 
The creatures have only one sense: touch. 
They have weak powers of telepathy. The messages they are capable of transmitting and 
receiving are almost as monotonous as the song of Mercury. They have only two possible 
messages. The first is an automatic response to the second, and the second is an automatic 
response to the first. 
The first is, " Here I am, here I am, here I am." 
The second is, " So glad you are, so glad you are, so glad you are." 
There is one last characteristic of the creatures that has not been explained on utilitarian 
grounds: the creatures seem to like to arrange themselves in striking patterns on the 
phosphorescent walls. 
Though blind and indifferent to anyone's watching, they often arrange themselves so as to 
present a regular and dazzling pattern of jonquil-yellow and vivid aquamarine diamonds. The 
yellow comes from the bare cave walls. The aquamarine is the light of the walls filtered through 
the bodies of the creatures. 
Because of their love for music and their willingness to deploy themselves in the service of 
beauty, the creatures are given a lovely name by Earthlings. 
They are called harmoniums. Unk and Boaz came in for a landing on the dark side of Mercury, seventy-nine 
Earthling days 
out of Mars. They did not know that the planet on which they were landing was Mercury. 
They thought the Sun was terrifyingly large — But that didn't keep them from thinking that they were landing on Earth. 
They blacked out during the period of sharp deceleration. Now they were regaining 
consciousness — were being treated to a cruel and lovely illusion. 
It seemed to Unk and Boaz that their ship was settling slowly among skyscrapers over which 
searchlights played. "They aren't shooting," said Boaz. "Either the war's over, or it ain't begun." 
The merry beams of light they saw were not from searchlights. The beams came from tall 
crystals on the borderline between the light and dark hemispheres of Mercury. Those crystals 
were catching beams from the sun, were bending them prismatically, playing them over the dark 
side. Other crystals on the dark side caught the beams and passed them on. 
It was easy to believe that the searchlights were playing over a sophisticated civilization 
indeed. It was easy to mistake the dense forest of giant blue-white crystals for skyscrapers, 
stupendous and beautiful. 
Unk, standing at a porthole, wept quietly. He was weeping for love, for family, for friendship, 
for truth, for civilization. The things he wept for were all abstractions, since his memory could 
furnish few faces or artifacts with which his imagination might fashion a passion play. Names 
rattled in his head like dry bones. Stony Stevenson, a friend . . . Bee, a wife . . . Chrono, a son . . . 
Unk, a father . . . The name Malachi Constant came to him, and he didn't know what to do with it. 
Unk lapsed into a blank reverie, a blank respect for the splendid people and the splendid lives 
that had produced the majestic buildings that the searchlights swept. Here, surely, faceless 
families and faceless friends and nameless hopes could flourish like — An apt image for flourishing eluded Unk. 
He imagined a remarkable fountain, a cone described by descending bowls of increasing 
diameters. It wouldn't do. The fountain was bone dry, filled with the ruins of birds' nests. Unk's 
fingertips tingled, as though abraded by a climb up the dry bowls. The image wouldn't do. 
Unk imagined again the three beautiful girls who had beckoned him to come down the oily 
bore of his Mauser rifle. 
"Man!" said Boaz, "everybody asleep — but not for long!" He cooed, and his eyes flashed. 
"When old Boaz and old Unk hits town," he said, "everybody going to wake up and stay woke up 
for weeks on end!" 
The ship was being controlled skillfully by its pilot-navigator. The equipment was talking 
nervously to itself — cycling, whirring, clicking, buzzing. It was sensing and avoiding hazards to 
the sides, seeking an ideal landing place below. 
The designers of the pilot-navigator had purposely obsessed the equipment with one idea — 
and that idea was to seek shelter for the precious troops and materiel it was supposed to be 
carrying. The pilot-navigator was to set the precious troops and materiel down in the deepest 
hole it could find. The assumption was that the landing would be in the face of hostile fire. 
Twenty Earthling minutes later, the pilot-navigator was still talking to itself — finding as 
much to talk about as ever. And the ship was still falling, and falling fast. 
The seeming searchlights and skyscrapers outside were no longer to be seen. There was only 
inky blackness. 
Inside the ship, there was silence of a hardly lighter shade. Unk and Boaz sensed what was 
happening to them — found what was happening unspeakable. They sensed correctly that they were being buried alive. The ship lurched suddenly, throwing Boaz and Unk to the floor. The violence brought violent relief. 
"Home at last," yelled Boaz. "Welcome home!" 
Then the ghastly feeling of the leaf-like fall began again. 
Twenty Earthling minutes later, the ship was still falling gently. 
Its lurches were more frequent. 
To protect themselves against the lurches, Boaz and Unk had gone to bed. They lay face 
down, their hands gripping the steel pipe supports of their bunks. 
To make their misery complete, the pilot-navigator decreed that night should fall in the cabin. 
A grinding noise passed over the dome of the ship, forced Unk and Boaz to turn their eyes 
from their pillows to the portholes. There was a pale yellow light outside now. 
Unk and Boaz shouted for joy, ran to the portholes. They reached them just in time to be 
thrown to the floor again as the ship freed itself from an obstruction, began its fall again. 
One Earthling minute later, the fall stopped. There was a modest click from the pilot-navigator. Having delivered its cargo 
safely from Mars to Mercury, as instructed, it had shut itself off. 
It had delivered its cargo to the floor of a cave one hundred and sixteen miles below the 
surface of Mercury. It had threaded its way down through a tortuous system of chimneys until it 
could go no deeper. 
Boaz was the first to reach a porthole, to look out and see the gay welcome of yellow and 
aquamarine diamonds the harmoniums had made on the walls. 
"Unk!" said Boaz. "God damn if it didn't go and set us down right in the middle of a 
Hollywood night club!" 
A recapitulation of Schliemann breathing techniques is in order at this point, in order that what 
happened next can be fully understood. Unk and Boaz, in their pressurized cabin, had been 
getting their oxygen from goofballs in their small intestines. But, living in an atmosphere under 
pressure, there was no need for them to plug their ears and nostrils, and keep their mouths shut 
tight. This sealing off was necessary only in a vacuum or in a poisonous atmosphere. 
Boaz was under the impression that outside the space ship was the wholesome atmosphere of 
his native Earth. 
Actually, there was nothing out there but a vacuum. Boaz threw open both the inner and outer 
doors of the airlock with a grand carelessness predicated on a friendly atmosphere outside. 
He was rewarded with the explosion of the small atmosphere of the cabin into the vacuum 
outside. 
He slammed shut the inner door, but not before he and Unk had hemorrhaged in the act of 
shouting for joy. They collapsed, their respiratory systems bleeding profusely. 
All that saved them from death was a fully automatic emergency system that answered the 
explosion with another, bringing the pressure of the cabin up to normal again. 
"Mama," said Boaz, as he came to. "God damn, Mama — this sure as hell ain't Earth." 
Unk and Boaz did not panic. They restored their strength with food, rest, drink, and goofballs. 
And they then plugged their ears and nostrils, shut their mouths, and explored the 
neighborhood of the ship. They determined that their tomb was deep, tortuous, endless — airless, 
uninhabited by anything remotely human, and uninhabitable by anything remotely human. 
They noted the presence of the harmoniums, but could find nothing encouraging in the 
presence of the creatures there. The creatures seemed ghastly. 
Unk and Boaz didn't really believe they were in such a place. Not believing it was the thing 
that saved them from panic. They returned to their ship. 
"O.K.," said Boaz calmly, "there has been some mistake. We have wound up too deep in the 
ground. We got to fly back on up to where them buildings are. I tell you frankly Unk, it don't 
seem like to me this is even Earth we're in. There's been some mistake, like I say, and we got to 
ask the folks in the buildings where we are." 
"O.K.," said Unk. He licked his lips. 
"Just push that old on button," said Boaz, "and up we fly like a bird." 
"O.K.," said Unk. 
"I mean," said Boaz, "up there, the folks in the buildings may not even know about all this 
down here. Maybe we discovered something they'll be just amazed about." "Sure," said Unk. His soul felt the pressure of the miles of rock above. And his 
soul felt the 
true nature of their predicament. On all sides and overhead were passages that branched and 
branched and branched. And the branches forked to twigs, and the twigs forked to passages no 
larger than a human pore. 
Unk's soul was right in feeling that not one branch in ten thousand led all the way to the 
surface. 
The space ship, thanks to the brilliantly-conceived sensing gear on its bottom, had sensed its 
way easily down and down and down, through one of the very few ways in — down and down 
and down one of the very few ways out. 
What Unk's soul hadn't suspected yet was the congenital stupidity of the pilot- navigator when 
it came to going up. It had never occurred to the designers that the ship might encounter 
problems in going tip. All Martian ships, after all, were meant to take off from an unobstructed 
field on Mars, and to be abandoned after landing on Earth. Consequently, there was virtually no 
sensing equipment on the ship for hazards overhead. "So long, old cave," said Boaz. Casually, Unk pressed the on button. The pilot-navigator hummed. 
In ten Earthling seconds, the pilot-navigator was warm. 
The ship left the cave floor with whispering ease, touched a wall, dragged its rim up the wall 
with a grinding, tearing scream, bashed its dome on an overhead projection, backed off, bashed 
its dome again, backed off, grazed the projection, climbed whisperingly again. Then came the 
grinding scream again — this time from all sides. 
All upward motion had stopped. 
The ship was wedged in solid rock. 
The pilot-navigator whimpered.It sent a wisp of mustard-colored smoke up through the floorboards of the cabin. 
The pilot-navigator stopped whimpering. 
It had overheated, and overheating was a signal for the pilot-navigator to extricate the ship 
from a hopeless mess. This it proceeded to do — grindingly. Steel members groaned. Rivets 
snapped like rifle shots. At last the ship was free. 
The pilot-navigator knew when it was licked. It flew the ship back down to the cave floor, 
landing with a kiss. 
The pilot-navigator shut itself off. 
Unk pushed the on button again. 
Again the ship blundered up into a blind passage, again retreated, again settled to the floor and 
shut itself off. 
The cycle was repeated a dozen times, until it was plain that the ship would only bash itself to 
pieces. Already its frame was badly sprung. 
When the ship settled to the cave floor for the twelfth time, Unk and Boaz went to pieces. 
They cried. 
"We're dead, Unk — we're dead!" said Boaz. "I've never been alive that I can remember," said 
Unk brokenly. "I thought I was finally going to get some living done." Unk went to a porthole, looked out with streaming eyes. 
He saw that the creatures nearest the porthole had outlined in aquamarine a perfect, pale 
yellow letter T. 
The making of a T was well within the limits of probability for brainless creatures distributing 
themselves at random. But then Unk saw that the T was preceded by a perfect S. And the S was 
preceded by a perfect B. 
Unk moved his head to one side, looked through the porthole obliquely. The movement gave 
him a perspective down a hundred yards of harmonium-infested wall. 
Unk was flabbergasted to see that the harmoniums were forming a message in dazzling letters. 
The message was this, in pale yellow, outlined in aquamarine: IT'S AN INTELLIGENCE 
TEST! 
CHAPTER NINE A PUZZLE SOLVED 
In the beginning, God became the Heaven and the Earth . . . And God said, 'Let Me be light,' and He was light. — The Winston Niles Rumfoord Authorized Revised Bible For a delicious tea snack, try young harmoniums rolled into tubes and filled with Venusian cottage cheese. — The Beatrice Rumfoord Galactic Cookbook In terms of their souls, the martyrs of Mars died not when they attacked Earth but when they were recruited for the Martian war machine. — The Winston Niles Rumfoord Pocket History of Mars I found me a place where I can do good without doing any harm. — BOAZ IN SARAH HORNE CANBY'S Unk and Boaz in the Caves of Mercur y 
The best-selling book in recent times has been The Winston Niles Rumfoord Authorized Revised 
Bible. Next in popularity is that delightful forgery, The Beatrice Rumfoord Galactic Cookbook. 
The third most popular is The Winston Niles Rumfoord Pocket History of Mars. The fourth most 
popular is a children's book, Unk and Boaz in the Caves of Mercur y, by Sarah Home Canby. 
The publisher's bland analysis of Mrs. Canby's book's success appears on the dust jacket: 
"What child wouldn't like to be shipwrecked on a space ship with a cargo of hamburgers, hot 
dogs, catsup, sporting goods, and soda pop?" 
Dr. Frank Minot, in his Are Adults Harmoniums?, sees something more sinister in the love 
children have for the book. "Dare we consider," he asks, "how close Unk and Boaz are to the 
everyday experience of children when Unk and Boaz deal solemnly and respectfully with 
creatures that are in fact obscenely unmotivated, insensitive, and dull?" Minot, in drawing a 
parallel between human parents and harmoniums, refers to the dealings of Unk and Boaz with 
harmoniums. The harmoniums spelled out for Unk and Boaz a new message of hope or veiled 
derision every fourteen Earthling days — for three years. 
The messages were written, of course, by Winston Niles Rumfoord, who materialized briefly 
on Mercury at fourteen-day intervals. He peeled off harmoniums here, slapped others up there, 
making the block letters. 
In Mrs. Canby's tale, the first intimation given that Rumfoord is around the caves from time to 
time is given in a scene very close to the end — a scene wherein Unk finds the tracks of a big 
dog in the dust. 
At this point in the story it is mandatory, if an adult is reading the story aloud to a child, for 
the adult to ask the child with delicious hoarseness, "Who wuzza dog?" 
Dog wuzza Kazak. Dog wuzza Winston Niles Rumfoord's great big mean chrono-synclastic 
infundibulated dog. 
Unk and Boaz had been on Mercury for three Earthling years when Unk found Kazak's 
footprints in the dust on the floor of a cave corridor. Mercury had carried Unk and Boaz twelve 
and a half times around the Sun. 
Unk found the prints on a floor six miles above the chamber in which the dented, scarred, and 
rock-bound space ship lay. Unk didn't live in the space ship any more, and neither did Boaz. The 
space ship served merely as a common supply base to which Unk and Boaz 
returned for 
provisions once every Earthling month or so. 
Unk and Boaz rarely met. They moved in very different circles. 
The circles in which Boaz moved were small. His abode was fixed and richly furnished. It was 
on the same level as the space ship, only a quarter of a mile away from it. 
The circles in which Unk moved were vast and restless. He had no home. He traveled light 
and he traveled far, climbing ever higher until he was stopped by cold. Where the cold stopped 
Unk, the cold stopped the harmoniums, too. On the upper levels where Unk wandered, the 
harmoniums were stunted and few. 
On the cozy lower level where Boaz lived, the harmoniums were plentiful and fast-growing. 
Boaz and Unk had separated after one Earthling year together in the space ship. In that first 
year together, it had become clear to both of them that they weren't going to get out unless 
something or somebody came and got them out. 
That had been clear, even though the creatures on the walls continued to spell out new 
messages emphasizing the fairness of the test to which Unk. and Boaz were being subjected, the 
ease with which they might escape, if only they would think a little harder, if they would only 
think a little more intricately. "THINK!" the creatures would say. 
Unk and Boaz separated after Unk went temporarily insane. Unk had tried to murder Boaz. 
Boaz had come into the space ship with a harmonium, which was exactly like all the other 
harmoniums, and he'd said, "Ain't he a cute little feller, Unk?" Unk had gone for Boaz's throat. 
Unk was naked when be found the dog tracks. The lichen green uniform and black fiber boots 
of the Martian Assault Infantry had been scoured to threads and dust by the touch of stone. 
The dog tracks did not excite Unk. Unk's soul wasn't filled with the music of sociability or the 
light of hope when he saw a warm-blooded creature's tracks, saw the tracks of man's best friend. 
And he still had very little to say to himself when the tracks of a well-shod man joined those of 
the dog. 
Unk was at war with his environment. He had come to regard his environment as being either 
malevolent or cruelly mismanaged. His response was to fight it with the only weapons at hand — 
passive resistance and open displays of contempt. 
The footprints seemed to Unk to be the opening moves in one more fat-headed game his 
environment wanted to play. He would follow the tracks, but lazily, without excitement. He 
would follow them simply because he had nothing else scheduled for the time. 
He would follow them. 
He would see where they went. 
His progress was knobby and ramshackle. Poor Unk had lost a lot of weight, and a lot of hair, 
too. He was aging fast. His eyes felt hot and his skeleton felt rickety. 
Unk never shaved on Mercury. When his hair and beard got so long as to be a bother, he 
would hack away wads of thatch with a butcherknife. 
Boaz shaved every day. Boaz gave himself a haircut twice an Earthling week with a barber kit 
from the space ship. 
Boaz, twelve years younger than Unk, had never felt better in his life. He had gained weight in 
the caves of Mercury — and serenity, too. 
Boaz's home vault was furnished with a cot, a table, two chairs, a punching bag, a mirror, 
dumbbells, a tape recorder, and a library of recorded music on tape consisting of eleven hundred 
compositions. 
Boaz's home vault had a door on it, a round boulder with which he could plug the vault's 
mouth. The door was necessary, since Boaz was God Almighty to the 
harmoniums. They could locate him by his heartbeat. 
Had he slept with his door open, he would have awakened to find himself pinned down by 
hundreds of thousands of his admirers. They would have let him up only when his heart stopped 
beating. 
Boaz, like Unk, was naked. But he still had shoes. 
His genuine leather shoes had held up gorgeously. 
True — Unk had walked fifty miles to every mile walked by Boaz, but Boaz's shoes had not 
merely held up. They looked as good as new. 
Boaz wiped, waxed, and shined them regularly. He was shining them now, The door of his 
vault was blocked by the boulder. 
Only four favored harmoniums were inside with him. Two were wrapped about his upper 
arms. One was stuck to his thigh. The fourth, an immature harmonium only three inches long, 
clung to the inside of his left wrist, feeding on Boaz's pulse. When Boaz found a harmonium he loved more than all the rest, that was what he did — let the 
creature feed on his pulse. 
"You like that?" he said in his thoughts to the lucky harmonium. "Ain't that nice?" 
He had never felt better physically, had never felt better mentally, had never felt better 
spiritually. He was glad he and Unk had separated, because Unk liked to twist things around to 
where it seemed that anybody who was happy was dumb or crazy. 
"What makes a man be like that?" Boaz asked the little harmonium in his thoughts. "What's he 
think he's gaining compared to what he's throwing away? No wonder he looks sick." 
Boaz shook his head. "I kept trying to interest him in you fellers, and he just got madder. 
Never helps to get mad. "I don't know what's going on," said Boaz in his thoughts, "and I'm probably not smart enough 
to understand if somebody was to explain it to me. All I know is we're being tested somehow, by 
somebody or some thing a whole lot smarter than us, and all I can do is be friendly and keep 
calm and try and have a nice time till it's over." 
Boaz nodded. "That's my philosophy, friends," he said to the harmoniums stuck to him. "And 
if I'm not mistaken, that's yours, too. I reckon that's how come we hit it off so good." 
The genuine leather toe of the shoe that Boaz was shining glowed like a ruby. 
"Men — awww now, men, men, men," said Boaz to himself, staring into the ruby. When he 
shined his shoes, he imagined that he could see many things in the rubies of the 
toes. 
Right now, Boaz was looking into a ruby and seeing Unk strangling poor old Stony Stevenson 
at the stone stake on the iron parade ground back on Mars. The horrible image wasn't a random 
recollection. It was dead center in Boaz's relationship with Unk. 
"Don't truth me," said Boaz in his thoughts, "and I won't truth you." It was a plea he had made 
several times to Unk. 
Boaz had invented the plea, and its meaning was this: Unk was to stop telling Boaz truths 
about the harmoniums, because Boaz loved the harmoniums, and because Boaz was nice enough 
not to bring up truths that would make Unk unhappy. 
Unk didn't know that he had strangled his friend Stony Stevenson. Unk thought Stony was still 
marvelously alive somewhere in the Universe. Unk was living on dreams of a reunion with 
Stony. 
Boaz was nice enough to withhold the truth from Unk, no matter how great the provocation 
had been to club Unk between the eyes with it. The horrible image in the ruby dissolved. "Yes, Lord," said Boaz in his thoughts. The adult harmonium on Boaz's upper left arm stirred. 
"You asking old Boaz for a concert?" Boaz asked the creature in his thoughts. "That what you 
trying to say? You trying to say, 'Ol' Boaz, I don't want to sound ungrateful, on account of I 
know it's a great honor to get to be right here close to your heart. Only I keep thinking about all 
my friends outside, and I keep wishing they could have something good, too.' That what you 
trying to say?" said Boaz in his thoughts. "You trying to say, 'Please, Papa Boaz — put on a 
concert for all the poor friends outside'? That what you trying to say?" Boaz smiled. "You don't have to flatter me," be said to the harmonium. 
The small harmonium on his wrist doubled up, extended itself again. "What you trying to tell 
me?" he asked it. "You trying to say 'Uncle Boaz — your pulse is just too rich for a little tad like 
me. Uncle Boaz — please just play some nice, sweet, easy music to eat'? That what you trying to 
say?" 
Boaz turned his attention to the harmonium on his right arm. The creature had not moved. 
"Ain't you the quiet one, though?" Boaz asked the creature in his thoughts. "Don't say much, but 
thinking all the time. I guess you're thinking old Boaz is pretty mean not just letting the music 
play all the time, huh?" 
The harmonium on his left arm stirred again. "What's that you say?" said Boaz in his thoughts. 
He cocked his head, pretended to listen, though no sounds could travel through the vacuum in 
which he lived. "You say, 'Please, King Boaz, play us the 1812 Overture' ?" Boaz looked 
shocked, then stern. "Just because something feels better than anything else," he said in his 
thoughts, "that don't mean it's good for you." 
Scholars whose field is the Martian War often exclaim over the queer unevenness of 
Rumfoord's war preparations. In some areas, his plans were horribly flimsy. The shoes he issued 
his ordinary troops, for instance, were almost a satire on the temporariness of the Jerry-built 
society of Mars — on a society whose whole purpose was to destroy itself in uniting the peoples 
of Earth. 
In the music libraries Rumfoord personally selected for the company mother ships, however, 
one sees a great cultural nest egg — a nest egg prepared as though for a monumental civilization 
that was going to endure for a thousand Earthling years. It is said that Rumfoord spent more time 
on the useless music libraries than he did on artillery and field sanitation combined, As an 
anonymous wit has it: "The Army of Mars arrived with three hundred hours of continuous music, 
and didn't last long enough to hear The Minute Waltz to the end." The explanation of the bizarre emphasis on the music carried by the Martian 
mother ships is 
simple: Rumfoord was crazy about good music — a craze, incidentally, that struck him only 
after be had been spread through time and space by the chrono-synclastic infundibulum. 
The harmoniums in the caves of Mercury were crazy about good music, too. They had been 
feeding on one sustained note in the song of Mercury for centuries. When Boaz gave them their 
first taste of music, which happened to be Le Sacré du Printemps, some of the creatures actually 
died in ecstasy. 
A dead harmonium is shriveled and orange in the yellow light of the Mercurial caves. A dead 
harmonium looks like a dried apricot. 
On that first occasion, which hadn't been planned as a concert for the harmoniums, the tape 
recorder had been on the floor of the space ship. The creatures who had actually died in ecstasy 
had been in direct contact with the metal hull of the ship. 
Now, two and a half years later, Boaz demonstrated the proper way to stage a concert for the 
creatures so as not to kill them. 
Boaz left his home vault, carrying the tape recorder and the musical selections for the concert 
with him, In the corridor outside were two aluminum ironing boards. These had fiber pads on 
their feet. The ironing boards were six feet apart, and spanning them was a stretcher made of 
aluminum poles and lichen-fiber canvas. 
Boaz placed the tape recorder in the middle of the stretcher. The purpose of the engine 
resulting was to dilute and dilute and dilute the vibrations from the tare recorder. The vibrations, 
before they reached the stone floor, had to struggle through the dead canvas of the stretcher, 
down the stretcher handles, through the ironing boards, and finally through the fiber pads on the 
feet of the ironing boards. 
The dilution was a safety measure. It guaranteed that no harmonium would get a lethal 
overdose of music. 
Boaz now put the tape in the recorder and turned the recorder on. Throughout the concert, he 
would stand guard by the apparatus. His duty was to see that no creature crept too close to the 
apparatus. His duty, when a creature crept too close, was to peel the creature from the wall or 
floor, scold it, and paste it up again a hundred yards or more away. 
"If you ain't got no more sense than that," he would say in his thoughts to the foolhardy 
harmonium, "you're going to wind up out here in left field ever' time. Think it over." 
Actually, a creature placed a hundred yards from the tape recorder still got plenty of music to 
eat. 
The walls of the caves were so extraordinarily conductive, in fact, that harmoniums on cave 
walls miles away got whiffs of Boaz's concerts through the stone. 
Unk, who had been following the tracks deeper and deeper into the caves, could tell from the 
way the harmoniums were behaving that Boaz was staging a concert. He had reached a warm 
level where the harmoniums were thick. Their regular pattern of alternating yellow and 
aquamarine diamonds was breaking up — was degenerating into jagged clumps, pinwheels, and 
lightning bolts. The music was making them do it. 
Unk laid his pack down, then laid himself down to rest. 
Unk dreamed about colors other than yellow and aquamarine. 
Then he dreamed that his good friend Stony Stevenson was waiting for him around the next 
bend. His mind became lively with the things he and Stony would say when they met. Unk's 
mind still had no face to go with the name of Stony Stevenson, but that didn't matter much. 
"What a pair," Unk said to himself. By that he meant that he and Stony, working together, 
would be invincible. 
"I tell you," Unk said to himself with satisfaction, "that is one pair they want to keep apart at 
all costs. If old Stony and old Unk ever get together again, they better watch out. When old 
Stony and old Unk get together, anything can happen, and it usually does." Old Unk chuckled. 
The people who were supposedly afraid of Unk's and Stony's getting together were the people 
in the big, beautiful buildings up above. Unk's imagination had done a lot in three years with the 
glimpses he'd had of the supposed buildings — of what were in fact solid, dead, dumb-cold 
crystals. Unk's imagination was now certain that the masters of all creation lived in those 
buildings. They were Unk's and Boaz's and maybe Stony's jailers. They were experimenting with 
Unk and Boaz in the caves. They wrote the messages in harmoniums. The harmoniums didn't 
have anything to do with the messages. Unk knew all those things for sure. Unk knew a lot of other things for sure. He even knew how the buildings up 
above were 
furnished. The furniture didn't have any legs on it. It just floated in air, suspended by magnetism. 
And the people never worked at all, and they never worried about a thing. Unk hated them. 
He hated the harmoniums, too. He peeled a harmonium from the wall and tore it in two. It 
shriveled at once — turned orange. 
Unk flipped the two-piece corpse at the ceiling. And, looking up at the ceiling, he saw a new 
message written there. The message was disintegrating, because of the music. But it was still 
legible. 
The message told Unk in five words how to escape surely, easily, and swiftly from the caves. 
He was bound to admit, when given the solution to the puzzle that he had failed to solve in three 
years, that the puzzle was simple and fair. 
Unk scuttled down through the caves until he came upon Boaz's concert for the harmoniums. 
Unk was wild and bug-eyed with big news. He could not speak in a vacuum, so he hauled Boaz 
to the space ship. 
There, in the inert atmosphere of the cabin, Unk told Boaz of the message that meant escape 
from the caves. 
It was now Boaz's turn to react numbly. Boaz had thrilled to the slightest illusion of 
intelligence on the part of the harmoniums — but now, having heard the news that he was about 
to be freed from his prison, Boaz was strangely reserved. 
"That — that explains that other message," said Boaz softly. 
"What other message?" asked Unk. 
Boaz held up his hands to represent a message that had appeared on the wall outside his home 
four Earthling days before. "Said, 'BOAZ, DON'T GO!'" said Boaz. He looked down selfconsciously. "'WE LOVE YOU, BOAZ.' That's what it said." 
Boaz 'dropped his hands to his side, turned away as though turning away from unbearable 
beauty. "I saw that," he said, "and I had to smile. I looked at them sweet, gentle fellers on the 
wall there, and I says to myself, 'Boys — how's old Boaz ever going to go anywhere? Old Boaz, 
he going to be stuck here for quite some time yet!'" "It's a trap!" said Unk. "It's a what?" said Boaz. "A trap!" said Unk. "A trick to keep us here!" 
The comic book called Tweety and Sylvester was open on the table before Boaz. Boaz didn't 
answer Unk right away. He leafed through the ragged book instead. "I expect," 
he said at last. 
Unk thought about the crazy appeal in the name of love. He did something he hadn't done for a 
long time. He laughed. He thought it was an hysterical ending for the nightmare — that the 
brainless membranes on the walls should speak of love. 
Boaz suddenly grabbed Unk, rattled poor Unk's dry bones. "I'd appreciate it, Unk," said Boaz 
tautly, "if you'd just let me think whatever I'm going to think about that message about how they 
love me. I mean — " he said, "you know — " he said, "it don't necessarily have to make sense to 
you. I mean — " he said, "you know — " he said, "there ain't really any call for you to say 
anything about it, one way or the other. I mean," he said, "you know — " he said, "these animals 
ain't necessarily your dish. You don't necessarily have to like 'em, or understand 'em, or say 
anything about 'em. I mean — " said Boaz, "you know — " said Boaz, "the message wasn't 
addressed to you. It's me they said they loved. That lets you out." 
He let Unk go, turned attention to the comic book again. His broad, brown, slab- muscled back 
amazed Unk. Living apart from Boaz, Unk had flattered himself into thinking he was a physical 
match for Boaz. He saw now what a pathetic delusion this had been. 
The muscles in Boaz's back slid over one another in slow patterns that were counterpoint to 
the quick movements of his page-turning fingers. "You know so much about traps and things," 
said Boaz. "How you know there ain't some worse trap waiting for us if we go flying out of 
here?" 
Before Unk could answer him, Boaz remembered that he had left the tape recorder playing and 
unguarded. 
"Ain't nobody watching out for 'em at all!" he cried. He left Unk, ran to rescue the 
harmoniums. 
While Boaz was gone, Unk made plans for turning the space ship upside. down. That was the 
solution to the puzzle of how to get out. That was what the harmoniums on the ceiling had said: 
UNK, TURN SHIP UPSIDE DOWN. 
The theory of turning the space ship over was sound, of course. The ship's sensing equipment 
was on its bottom. When turned over, the ship would be able to apply the same easy grace and 
intelligence to getting out of the caves that it had used in getting into-them. 
Thanks to a power winch and the feeble tug of gravity in the caves of Mercury, Unk had the 
ship turned over by the time Boaz got back. All that remained to be done for the 
trip out was to 
press the on button. The upside-down ship would then blunder against the cave floor, give up, 
retreat from the floor under the impression that the floor was a ceiling. 
It would go up the system of chimneys under the impression that it was going down. And it 
would inevitably find the way out, under the impression that it was seeking the deepest possible 
hole. 
The hole it would eventually find itself in would be the bottomless, sideless pit of space 
eternal. 
Boaz came into the upside-down ship, his arms loaded with dead harmoniums. He was 
carrying four quarts or more of the seeming dried apricots. Inevitably he dropped some. And, in 
stooping to pick them up reverently, he dropped more. Tears were streaming down his face. 
"You see?" said Boaz. He was raging heartbrokenly against himself. "You see, Unk?" he said. 
"See what happens when somebody just runs off and forgets?" 
Boaz shook his head. "This ain't all of 'em," he said. "This ain't near all of 'em." He found an 
empty carton that had once contained candy bars. He put the harmonium corpses into that. 
He straightened up, his hands on his hips. Just as Unk had been amazed by Boaz's physical 
condition, so was Unk now amazed by Boaz's dignity. 
Boaz, when he straightened up, was a wise, decent, weeping, brown Hercules. 
Unk, by comparison, felt scrawny, rootless, and soreheaded. 
"You want to do the dividing, Unk?" said Boaz. 
"Dividing?" said Unk. 
"Goofballs, food, soda pop, candy," said Boaz. 
"Divide it all?" said Unk. "My God — there's enough of everything for five hundred years." 
There had never been any talk of dividing things before. There had been no shortage, and no 
threat of a shortage of anything. "Half for you to take with you, and half to leave here with me," said Boaz. 
" Leave with you?" said Unk incredulously. "You're — you're coming with me, aren't you?" 
Boaz held up his big right hand, and it was a tender gesture for silence, a gesture made by a 
thoroughly great human being. "Don't truth me, Unk," said Boaz, "and I won't truth you." He 
brushed away his tears with a fist. 
Unk had never been able to brush aside the plea about truthing. It frightened him. Some part of 
his mind warned him that Boaz was not bluffing, that Boaz really knew a truth about Unk that 
could tear him to pieces. Unk opened his mouth and closed it again. 
"You come and tell me the big news," said Boaz. "'Boaz — ' you say, 'we're going to be free!' 
And I get all excited, and I drop everthing I'm doin', and I get set to be free. 
"And I keep saying it over to myself about how I'm going to be free," said Boaz, "and then I 
try to think what that's going to be like, and all I can see is people. They push me this way, then 
they push me that — and nothing pleases 'em, and they get madder and madder, on account of 
nothing makes 'em happy. And they holler at me on account of I ain't made 'em happy, and we 
all push and pull some more. 
"And then, all of a sudden," said Boaz, "I remember all the crazy little animals I been making 
so happy so easy with music. And I go find thousands of 'em lying around dead, on account of 
Boaz forgot all about 'em, he was so excited about being free. And ever' one of them lost lives I 
could have saved, if I'd have just kept my mind on what I was doing. 
"And then I say to myself," said Boaz, "'I ain't never been nothing good to people, and people 
never been nothing good to me. So what I want to be free in crowds of people for?' 
"And then I knew what I was going to say to you, Unk, when I got back here," 
said Boaz. Boaz now said it: 
"I found me a place where I can do good without doing any harm, and I can see I'm doing 
good, and them I'm doing good for know I'm doing it, and they love me, Unk, as best they can. I 
found me a home. 
"And when I die down here some day," said Boaz, "I'm going to be able to say to myself, 
'Boaz — you made millions of lives worth living. Ain't nobody ever spread more joy. You ain't 
got an enemy in the Universe.'" Boaz became for himself the affectionate Mama and Papa he'd 
never had. "'You go to sleep now,'" he said to himself, imagining himself on a stone deathbed in 
the caves. "'You're a good boy, Boaz,'" he said. "'Good night.'" 
CHAPTER TEN AN AGE OF MIRACLES 
"O Lord Most High, Creator of the Cosmos, Spinner of Galaxies, Soul of Electromagnetic Waves, Inhaler and Exhaler of Inconceivable Volumes of Vacuum, Spitter of Fire and Rock, Trifler with Millennia — what could we do for Thee that Thou couldst not do for Thyself one octillion times better? Nothing. What could we do or say that could possibly interest Thee? Nothing. Oh, Mankind, rejoice in the apathy of our Creator, for it makes us free and truthful and dignified at last. No longer can a fool like Malachi Constant point to a ridiculous accident of good luck and say, 'Somebody up there likes me.' And no longer can a tyrant say, 'God wants this or that to happen, and anybody who doesn't help this or that to happen is against God.' O Lord Most High, what a glorious weapon is Thy Apathy, for we have unsheathed it, have thrust and slashed mightily with it, and the claptrap that has so often enslaved us or driven us into the madhouse lies slain!" — THE REVEREND C. HORNER REDWINE It was a Tuesday afternoon. It was springtime in the northern hemisphere of 
Earth. 
Earth was green and watery. The air of earth was good to breathe, as fattening as cream. 
The purity of the rains that fell on Earth could be tasted. The taste of purity was daintily tart. 
Earth was warm. 
The surface of Earth heaved and seethed in fecund restlessness. Earth was most fertile where 
the most death was. 
The daintily tart rain fell on a green place where there was a great deal of death. It fell on a 
New World country churchyard. The churchyard was in West Barnstable, Cape Cod, 
Massachusetts, U.S.A. The churchyard was full, the spaces between its naturally dead chinked 
tight by the bodies of the honored war dead. Martians and Earthlings lay side by side. 
There was not a country in the world that did not have graveyards with Earthlings and 
Martians buried side by side. There was not a country in the world that had not fought a battle in 
the war of all Earth against the invaders from Mars. All was forgiven. All living things were brothers, and all dead things were even more so. 
The church, which squatted among the headstones like a wet mother dodo, had been at various 
times Presbyterian, Congregationalist, Unitarian, and Universal Apocalyptic. It was now the 
Church of God the Utterly Indifferent. 
A seeming wild man stood in the churchyard, wondering at the creamery air, at the green, at 
the wet. He was almost naked, and his blue-black beard and his hair were tangled and long and 
shot with gray. The only garment he wore was a clinking breechclout made of wrenches and 
copper wire. The garment covered his shame. 
The rain ran down his coarse cheeks. He tipped back his head to drink it. He rested his hand 
on a headstone, more for the feel than the support of it. He was used to the feel of stones — was 
deathly used to the feel of rough, dry stones. But stones that were wet, stones that were mossy, 
stones that were squared and written on by men — he hadn't felt stones like that for a long, long 
time. 
Pro patria said the stone he touched. 
The man was Unk. 
He was home from Mars and Mercury. His space ship had landed itself in a wood next to the 
churchyard. He was filled with the heedless, tender violence of a man who has had his lifetime 
cruelly wasted. 
Unk was forty-three years old. 
He had every reason to wither and die. 
All that kept him going was a wish that was more mechanical than emotional. 
He wished to be 
reunited with Bee, his mate, with Chrono, his son, and with Stony Stevenson, his best and only 
friend. The Reverend C. Horner Redwine stood in the pulpit of his church that rainy 
Tuesday 
afternoon. There was no one else in the church. Redwine had climbed up to the pulpit in order 
simply to be as happy as possible. He was not being as happy as possible under adverse 
circumstances. He was being as happy as possible under extraordinarily happy circumstances — 
for he was a much loved minister of a religion that not only promised but delivered miracles. 
His church, the Barnstable First Church of God the Utterly Indifferent, had a subtitle: The 
Church of the Weary Space Wanderer. The subtitle was justified by this prophecy: That a lone 
straggler from the Army of Mars would arrive at Redwine's church some day. 
The church was ready for the miracle. There was a hand-forged iron spike driven into the 
rugged oak post behind the pulpit. The post carried the mighty beam that was the 
roof tree. And 
on the nail was hung a coathanger encrusted with semiprecious stones. And on the coathanger 
hung a suit of clothes in a transparent plastic bag. 
The prophecy was that the weary Space Wanderer would be naked, that the suit of clothes 
would fit him like a glove. The suit was of such a design as to fit no one but the right man well. 
It was one piece, lemon-yellow, rubberized, closed by a zipper, and ideally skin- tight. 
The garment was not in the mode of the day. It was a special creation to add glamour to the 
miracle. 
Stitched into the back and front of the garment were orange question marks a foot high. These 
signified that the Space Wanderer would not know who he was. 
No one would know who he was until Winston Niles Rumfoord, the head of all churches of 
God the Utterly Indifferent, gave the world the Space Wanderer's flame. 
The signal, should the Space Wanderer arrive, was for Redwine to ring the church bell madly. 
When the bell was rung madly, the parishioners were to feel ecstasy, to drop whatever they 
were doing, to laugh, to weep, to come. 
The West Barnstable Volunteer Fire Department was so dominated by members of Redwine's 
church that the fire engine itself was going to arrive as the only vehicle remotely glorious enough 
for the Space Wanderer. 
The screams of the fire alarm on top of the firehouse were to be added to the bedlam joy of the 
bell. One scream from the alarm meant a grass or woods fire. Two screams meant a house fire. 
Three screams meant a rescue. Ten screams would mean that the Space Wanderer had arrived. 
Water seeped in around an ill-fitting window sash. Water crept under a loose shingle in the 
roof, dropped through a crack and hung in glittering beads from a rafter over Redwine's head. 
The good rain wet the old Paul Revere bell in the steeple, trickled down the bell rope, soaked the 
wooden doll tied to the end of the bell rope, dripped from the feet of the doll, made a puddle on 
the steeple's flagstone floor. 
The doll had a religious significance. It represented a repellent way of life that was no more. It 
was called a Malachi. No home or place of business of a member of Redwine's faith was without 
a Malachi hanging somewhere. 
There was only one proper way to hang a Malachi. That was by the neck. There was only one 
proper knot to use, and that was a hangman's knot. 
And the rain dripped from the feet of Redwine's Malachi at the end of the bell rope — 
The cold goblin spring of the crocuses was past. The frail and chilly fairy spring of the daffodils was past. 
The springtime for mankind had arrived, and the blooms of the lilac bowers outside Redwine's 
church hung fatly, heavy as Concord grapes. 
Redwine listened to the rain, and imagined that it spoke Chaucerian English. He spoke aloud 
the words he imagined the rain to be speaking, spoke harmoniously, at just the noise level of the 
rain. 
Whan that Aprille with his shoures sote 
The droughte of Marche hath perced to the rote 
And bathed every veyne in swich licour, 
Of which vertu engendered is the flour — 
A droplet fell twinkling from the rafter overhead, wet the left lens of Redwine's spectacles and 
his apple cheek. 
Time had been kind to Redwine. Standing there in the pulpit, he looked like a ruddy, 
bespectacled country newsboy, though he was forty-nine. He raised his hand to brush away the 
wetness on his cheek, and rattled the blue canvas bag of lead shot that was strapped around his 
wrist. 
There were similar bags of shot around his ankles and his other wrist, and two heavy slabs of 
iron hung on shoulder straps — one slab on his chest and one on his back. These weights were his handicaps in the race of life. 
He carried forty-eight pounds — carried them gladly. A stronger person would have carried 
more, a weaker person would have carried less. Every strong member of Redwine's faith 
accepted handicaps gladly, wore them proudly everywhere. 
The weakest and meekest were bound to admit, at last, that the race of life was fair. 
The liquid melodies of the rain made such lovely backgrounds for any sort of recitation in the 
empty church that Redwine recited some more. This time he recited something that Winston 
Niles Rumfoord, the Master of Newport, had written. 
The thing that Redwine was about to recite with the rain chorus was a thing that the Master of 
Newport had written to define the position of himself with respect to his ministers, the position 
of his ministers with respect to their flocks, and the position of everybody with respect to God. 
Redwine read it to his flock on the first Sunday of every month. 
"'I am not your father,'" said Redwine. "'Rather call me brother. But I am not your brother. 
Rather call me son. But I am not your son. Rather call me a dog. But I am not your dog. Rather 
call me a flea on your dog. But I am not a flea. Rather call me a germ on a flea on your dog. As a 
germ on a flea on your dog, I am eager to serve you in any way I can, just as you are willing to 
serve God Almighty, Creator of the Universe.'" 
Redwine slapped his hands together, killing the imaginary germ-infested flea. On Sundays, the 
entire congregation slapped the flea in unison. 
Another droplet fell shivering from the rafter, wet Redwine's cheek again. Redwine nodded his 
sweet thanks for the droplet, for the church, for peace, for the Master of Newport, for Earth, for a 
God Who didn't care, for everything. 
He stepped down from the pulpit, making the lead balls in his handicap bags shift back and 
forth with a stately swish. 
He went down the aisle and through the arch under the steeple. He paused by the puddle under 
the bell rope, looked up to divine the course the water had taken down. It was a lovely way, he 
decided, for spring rain to come in. If ever he were in charge of remodeling the church, be would 
make sure that enterprising drops of rain could still come in that way. Just beyond the arch under the steeple was another arch, a leafy arch of lilacs. 
Redwine now stepped under that second arch, saw the space ship like a great blister in the 
woods, saw the naked, bearded Space Wanderer in his churchyard. 
Redwine cried out for joy. He ran back into his church and jerked and swung on the bell rope 
like a drunken chimpanzee. In the clanging bedlam of the bells, Redwine heard the words that 
the Master of Newport said all bells spoke. "NO HELL!" whang-danged the bell — "NO HELL, "NO HELL, 
"NO HELL!" 
Unk was terrified by the bell. It sounded like an angry, frightened bell to Unk, and he ran back 
to his ship, gashing his shin badly as he scrambled over a stone wall. As he was closing the 
airlock, he heard a siren wailing answers to the bell. 
Unk thought Earth was still at war with Mars, and that the siren and the bell were calling 
sudden death down on him. He pressed the on button. The automatic navigator did not respond instantly, but engaged in a fuzzy, 
ineffectual argument with itself. The argument ended with the navigator's shutting itself off. 
Unk pressed the on button again. This time he kept it down by jamming his heel against it. 
Again the navigator argued stupidly with itself, tried to shut itself off. When it found that it 
could not shut itself off, it made dirty yellow smoke. 
The smoke became so dense and poisonous that Unk was obliged to swallow a goofball and 
practice Schliemann breathing again. Then the pilot-navigator gave out a deep, throbbing organ note and died forever. 
There was no taking off now. When the pilot-navigator died, the whole space ship died. 
Unk went through the smoke to a porthole — looked out. 
He saw a fire engine. The fire engine was breaking through the brush to the space ship. Men, 
women, and children were clinging to the engine — drenched by rain and expressing ecstasy. 
Going in advance of the fire engine was the Reverend C. Horner Redwine. In one hand he 
carried a lemon-yellow suit in a transparent plastic bag. In the other hand he held a spray of 
fresh-cut lilacs. 
The women threw kisses to Unk through the port. holes, held their children up to see the 
adorable man inside. The men stayed with the fire engine, cheered Unk, cheered each other, 
cheered everything. The driver made the mighty motor backfire, blew the siren, rang the bell. 
Everyone wore handicaps of some sort. Most handicaps were of an obvious sort 
— 
sashweights, bags of shot, old furnace grates — meant to hamper physical advantages. But there 
were, among Redwine's parishioners, several true believers who had chosen handicaps of a 
subtler and more telling kind. 
There were women who had received by dint of dumb luck the terrific advantage of beauty. 
They had annihilated that unfair advantage with frumpish clothes, bad posture, chewing gum, 
and a ghoulish use of cosmetics. 
One old man, whose only advantage was excellent eyesight, had spoiled that eyesight by 
wearing his wife's spectacles. 
A dark young man, whose lithe, predaceous sex appeal could not be spoiled by bad clothes 
and bad man. ners, had handicapped himself with a wife who was nauseated by sex. 
The dark young man's wife, who had reason to be vain about her Phi Beta Kappa key, had 
handicapped herself with a husband who read nothing but comic books. 
Redwine's congregation was not unique. It wasn't especially fanatical. There were literally 
billions of happily self-handicapped people on Earth. 
And what made them all so happy was that nobody took advantage of anybody any more. 
Now the firemen thought of another way to express joy. There was a nozzle mounted 
amidships on the fire engine. It could be swiveled around like a machine gun. They aimed it 
straight up and turned it on. A shivering, unsure fountain climbed into the sky, was torn to shreds 
by the winds when it could climb no more. The shreds fell all around, now falling on the space 
ship with splattering thumps; now soaking the firemen themselves; now soaking women and 
children, startling them, then making them more full of joy than ever. 
That water should have played such an important part in the welcoming of Unk was an 
enchanting accident. No one had planned it. But it was perfect that everyone should forget 
himself in a festival of universal wetness. 
The Reverend C. Horner Redwine, feeling as naked as a pagan wood sprite in the dinging 
wetness of his clothes, swished a spray of lilacs over the glass of a porthole, then pressed his 
adoring face against the glass. 
The expression of the face that looked back at Redwine was strikingly like the expression on 
the face of an intelligent ape in a zoo. Unk's forehead was deeply wrinkled, and his eyes were 
liquid with a hopeless wish to understand. 
Unk had decided not to be afraid. Neither was he in any hurry to let Redwine in. 
At last he went to the airlock, unlatched both the inner and outer doors. He stepped back, 
waiting for someone else to push the doors open. 
"First let me go in and have him put on the suit!" said Redwine to his congregation. "Then you 
can have him!" 
There in the space ship, the lemon-yellow suit fit Unk like a coat of paint. The orange question 
marks on his chest and back clung without a wrinkle. 
Unk did not yet know that no one else in the world was dressed like him. He assumed that 
many people bad suits like his — question marks and all. "This — this is Earth?" said Unk to Redwine. 
"Yes," said Redwine. "Cape Cod, Massachusetts, United States of America, Brotherhood of 
Man." 
"Thank God!" said Unk. 
Redwine raised his eyebrows quizzically. "Why?" he said. 
"Pardon me?" said Unk. 
"Why thank God?" said Redwine. "He doesn't care what happens to you. He didn't go to any 
trouble to get you here safe and sound, any more than He would go to the trouble 
to kill you." He 
raised his arms, demonstrating the muscularity of his faith. The balls of shot in the handicap bags 
on his wrists shifted swishingly, drawing Unk's attention. From the handicap bags, Unk's 
attention made an easy jump to the heavy slab of iron on Redwine's chest. Redwine followed the 
trend of Unk's gaze, hefted the iron slab on his chest. "Heavy," he said. "Um," said Unk. 
"You should carry about fifty pounds, I would guess — after we build you up," said Redwine. 
"Fifty pounds?" said Unk. 
"You should be glad, not sorry, to carry such a handicap," said Redwine. "No one could then 
reproach you for taking advantage of the random ways of luck." There crept into his voice a 
beatifically threatening tone that he had not used much since the earliest days of the Church of 
God the Utterly Indifferent, since the thrilling mass conversions that had followed the war with 
Mars. In those days, Redwine and all the other young proselytizers had threatened unbelievers 
with the righteous displeasure of crowds — righteously dis. pleased crowds that did not then 
exist. The righteously displeased crowds existed now in every part of the world. The 
total 
membership of Churches of God the Utterly Indifferent was a good, round three billion. The 
young lions who had first taught the creed could now-afford to be lambs, to contemplate such 
oriental mysteries as water trickling down a bell rope. The disciplinary arm of the Church was in 
crowds everywhere. 
"I must warn you," Redwine said to Unk, "that when you go out among all those people you 
mustn't say anything that would indicate that God took a special interest in you, or that you could 
somehow be of help to God. The worst thing you could say, for instance, would be something 
like, 'Thank God for delivering me from all my troubles. For some reason He singled me out, and 
now my only wish is to serve Him.' 
"The friendly crowd out there," continued Redwine, "could turn quite ugly quite fast, despite 
the high auspices under which you come." 
Unk had been planning to say almost exactly what Redwine had warned him against saying. It 
had seemed the only proper speech to make. "What — what should I say?" said Unk. 
"It has been prophesied what you will say," said Redwine, "word for word. I have thought 
long and hard about the words you are going to say, and I am convinced they cannot be 
improved upon." 
"But I can't think of any words — except hello — thank you — " said Unk. "What do you 
want me to say?" "What you do say," said Redwine. "Those good people out there have been 
rehearsing this 
moment for a long time. They will ask you two questions, and you will answer them to the best 
of your ability." 
He led Unk through the airlock to the outside. The fire engine's fountain had been turned off. 
The shouting and dancing had stopped. 
Redwine's congregation now formed a semicircle around Unk and Redwine. The members of 
the congregation had their lips pressed tightly together and their lungs filled. Redwine gave a saintly signal. The congregation spoke as one. "Who are you?" they said. "I — I don't know my real name," said Unk. "They called me Unk." 
"What happened to you?" said the congregation. Unk shook his head vaguely. He could think 
of no apt condensation of his adventures for the obviously ritual mood. Something great was 
plainly expected of him. He was not up to greatness. He exhaled noisily, letting 
the congregation 
know that he was sorry to fail them with his colorlessness. "I was a victim of a series of 
accidents," he said. He shrugged. "As are we all," he said. The cheering and dancing began again. 
Unk was hustled aboard the fire engine, and driven on it to the door of the church. 
Redwine pointed amiably to an unfurled wooden scroll over the door. Incised in the scroll and 
gilded were these words: 
I WAS A VICTIM OF A SERIES OF ACCIDENTS, 
AS ARE WE ALL. 
Unk was driven on the fire engine straight from the church to Newport, Rhode Island, where a 
materialization was due to take place. 
According to a plan that had been set up years before, other fire apparatus on Cape Cod was 
shifted so as to protect West Barnstable, which would be without its pumper for a little while. 
Word of the Space Wanderer's coming spread over the Earth like wildfire. In every village, 
town, and city through which the fire engine passed, Unk was pelted with flowers. 
Unk sat high on the fire engine, on a two-by-six fir timber laid across the cockpit amidships. 
In the cockpit itself was the Reverend C. Homer Redwine. 
Redwine had control of the fire engine's bell, which he rang assiduously. Attached to the 
clapper of the bell was a Malachi made of high-impact plastic. The doll was of a special sort that 
could be bought only in Newport. To display such a Malachi was to proclaim that one had made 
a pilgrimage to Newport. 
The entire Volunteer Fire Department of West Barnstable, with the exception of two nonconformists, had made such a pilgrimage to Newport. The fire engine's Malachi had been bought 
with Fire Department funds. 
In the parlance of the souvenir hawkers in Newport, the Fire Department's high- impact plastic 
Malachi was a "genuwine, authorized, official Malachi." 
Unk was happy, because it was so good to be among people again, and to be breathing air 
again. And everybody seemed to adore him so. 
There was so much good noise. There was so much good everything. Unk hoped the good 
everything would go on forever. "What happened to you?" the people all yelled to him, and they laughed. 
For the purposes of mass communications, Unk shortened the answer that had pleased the 
little crowd so much at the Church of the Space Wanderer. "Accidents!" he yelled. 
He laughed. Oh boy. What the hell. He laughed. 
In Newport, the Rumfoord estate had been packed to the walls for eight hours. Guards turned 
thousands away from the little door in the wall. The guards were hardly necessary, since the 
crowd inside was monolithic. A greased eel couldn't have squeezed in. 
The thousands of pilgrims outside the walls now jostled one another piously for positions 
close to the loudspeakers mounted at the corners of the walls. From the speakers would come Rumfoord's voice. 
The crowd was the largest yet and the most excited yet, for the day was the long- promised 
Great Day of the Space Wanderer. 
Handicaps of the most imaginative and effective sort were displayed everywhere. The crowd 
was wonderfully drab and hampered. 
Bee, who had been Unk's mate on Mars, was in Newport, too. So was Bee's and Unk's son, 
Chrono. 
"Hey! — getcher genuwine, authorized, official Malachis here," said Bee hoarsely. "Hey! — 
getcher Malachis here. Gotta have a Malachi to wave at the Space Wanderer," said Bee. "Get a 
Malachi, so the Space Wanderer can bless it when he comes by." 
She was in a booth facing the little iron door in the wall of the Rumfoord estate in Newport. 
Bee's booth was the first in the line of twenty booths that faced the door. The twenty booths were 
under one continuous shed roof, and were separated from one another by waist- high partitions. 
The Malachis she was hawking were plastic dolls with movable joints and rhinestone eyes. 
Bee bought them from a religious supply house for twenty-seven cents apiece and sold them for 
three dollars. She was an excellent businesswoman. 
And while Bee showed the world an efficient and flashy exterior, it was the grandeur within 
her that sold more merchandise than anything. The carnival flash of Bee caught the pilgrims' 
eyes. But what brought the pilgrims to her booth and made them buy was her aura. The aura said 
unmistakably that Bee was meant for a far nobler station in life, that she was being an awfully 
good sport about being stuck where she was. 
"Hey! — getcher Malachi while there's still time," said Bee. "Can't get a Malachi while a 
materialization's going on!" 
That was true. The rule was that the concessionaires had to close their shutters five minutes 
before Winston Niles Rumfoord and his dog materialized. And they had to keep their shutters 
closed until ten minutes after the last trace of Rumfoord and Kazak had disappeared. 
Bee turned to her son, Chrono, who was opening a fresh case of Malachis. "How long before 
the whistle?" she said. The whistle was a great steam whistle inside the estate. It was blown five 
minutes in advance of materializations. 
Materializations themselves were announced by the firing of a three-inch cannon. 
Dematerializations were announced by the release of a thousand toy balloons. 
"Eight minutes," said Chrono, looking at his watch. He was eleven Earthling years old now. 
He was dark and smoldering. He was an expert short-changer, and was clever with cards. He was 
foul-mouthed, and carried a switch-knife with a six-inch blade. Chrono would not socialize well 
with other children, and his reputation for dealing with life courageously and directly was so bad 
that only a few very foolish and very pretty little girls were attracted to him. 
Chrono was classified by the Newport Police Department and by the Rhode Island State Police 
as a juvenile delinquent. He knew at least fifty law-enforcement officers by their first names, and 
was a veteran of fourteen lie-detector tests. 
All that prevented Chrono's being placed in an institution was the finest legal staff on Earth, 
the legal staff of the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent. Under the direction of Rumfoord, the 
staff defended Chrono against all charges. 
The commonest charges brought against Chrono were larceny by sleight of hand, carrying 
concealed weapons, possessing unregistered pistols, discharging firearms within the city limits, 
selling obscene prints and articles, and being a wayward child. 
The authorities complained bitterly that the boy's big trouble was his mother. His mother loved 
him just the way he was. 
"Only eight more minutes to get your Malachi, folks," said Bee. "Hurry, hurry, hurry." 
Bee's upper front teeth were gold, and her skin, like the skin of her son, was the color of 
golden oak. 
Bee had lost her upper front teeth when the space ship in which she and Chrono had ridden 
from Mars crash-landed in the Gumbo region of the Amazon Rain Forest. She and Chrono had 
been the only survivors of the crash, and had wandered through the jungles for a year. 
The color of Bee's and Chrono's skins was permanent, since it stemmed from a modification of 
their livers, Their livers had been modified by a three-month diet consisting of water and the 
roots of the salpa-salpa or Amazonian blue poplar. The diet had been a part of Bee's and 
Chrono's initiation into the Gumbo tribe. 
During the initiation, mother and son had been staked at the ends of tethers in the middle of 
the village, with Chrono representing the Sun and Bee representing the Moon, as the Sun and the 
Moon were understood by the Gumbo people. 
As a result of their experiences, Bee and Chrono were closer than most mothers and sons. 
They had been rescued at last by a helicopter. Winston Niles Rumfoord had sent the helicopter 
to just the right place at just the right time. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord had given Bee and Chrono the lucrative Malachi concession outside 
the Alice-in-Wonderland door. He had also paid Bee's dental bill, and had suggested that her 
false front teeth be gold. 
The man who had the booth next to Bee's was Harry Brackman. He had been Unk's platoon 
sergeant back on Mars. Brackman was portly and balding now. He had a cork leg and a stainless 
steel right hand. He had lost the leg and hand in the Battle of Boca Raton, He was the only 
survivor of the battle — and, if he hadn't been so horribly wounded, he would certainly have 
been lynched along with the other survivors of his platoon. 
Brackman sold plastic models of the fountain inside the wall. The models were a foot high. 
The models had spring-driven pumps in their bases. The pumps pumped water from the big bowl 
at the bottom to the tiny bowls at the top. Then the tiny bowls spilled into the slightly larger 
bowls below and . . . 
Brackman had three of them going at once on the counter before him. "Just like the one inside, 
folks," he said. "And you can take one of these home with you. Put it in the picture window, so 
all your neighbors'll know you've been to Newport. Put it in the middle of the kitchen table for 
the kids' parties, and fill it with pink lemonade." "How much?" said a rube. "Seventeen dollars," said Brackman. "Wow!" said the rube. 
"It's a sacred shrine, cousin," said Brackman, looking at the rube levelly. "Isn't a toy." He 
reached under the counter, brought out a model of a Martian space ship. "You want a toy? Here's 
a toy. Forty-nine cents. I only make two cents on it." 
The rube made a show of being a judicious shopper. He compared the toy with the real article 
it was supposed to represent. The real article was a Martian space ship on top of a column 
ninety-eight feet tall, The column and space ship were inside the walls of the Rumfoord estate — 
in the corner of the estate where the tennis courts had once been. 
Rumfoord bad yet to explain the purpose of the space ship, whose supporting column had been 
built with the pennies of school children from all over the world. The ship was kept in constant 
readiness. What was reputedly the longest free-standing ladder in history leaned against the 
column, led giddily to the door of the ship. 
In the fuel cartridge of the space ship was the very last trace of the Martian war effort's supply 
of the Universal Will to Become. 
"Uh huh," said the rube. He put the model back on the counter. "If you don't mind, I'll shop 
around a little more." So far, the only thing he had bought was a Robin Hood hat with a picture 
of Rumfoord on one side and a picture of a sailboat on the other, and with his own name stitched 
on the feather. His name, according to the feather, was Delbert. "Thanks just the same," said 
Delbert. "I'll probably be back." 
"Sure you will, Delbert," said Brackman. 
"How did you know my name was Delbert?" said Delbert, pleased and suspicious. 
"You think Winston Niles Rumfoord is the only man around here with supernatural powers?" 
said Brackman. 
A jet of steam went up inside the walls. An instant later, the voice of the great steam whistle 
rolled over the booths — mighty, mournful, and triumphant. It was the signal that Rumfoord and 
his dog would materialize in five minutes. 
It was the signal for the concessionaires to stop their irreverent bawling of brummagem wares, 
to close their shutters. The shutters were banged shut at once. 
The effect of the closing inside the booths was to turn the line of concessions into a twilit 
tunnel. 
The isolation of the concessionaires in the tunnel bad an extra dimension of spookiness, since 
the tunnel contained only survivors from Mars. Rumfoord had insisted on that — that Martians 
were to have first choice of the concessions at Newport. It was his way of saying, "Thanks." 
There weren't many survivors — only fifty-eight in the United States, only three hundred and 
sixteen in the entire World; of the fifty-eight in the United States, twenty-one were 
concessionaires in Newport. 
"Here we go again, kiddies," somebody said, far, far, far down the line. It was the voice of the 
blind man who sold the Robin Hood hats with a picture of Rumfoord on one side and a picture of 
a sailboat on the other. 
Sergeant Brackman laid his folded arms on the half-partition between his booth and Bee's. He 
winked at young Chrono, who was lying on an unopened case of Malachis. "Go to hell, eh, kid?" said Brackman to Chrono. 
"Go to hell," Chrono agreed. He was cleaning his nails with the strangely bent, drilled and 
nicked piece of metal that had been his good-luck piece on Mars. It was still his good-luck piece 
on Earth. 
The good-luck piece had probably saved Chrono's and Bee's lives in the jungle. The Gumbo 
tribesmen had recognized the piece of metal as an object of tremendous power. Their respect for 
it had led them to initiate rather than eat its owners. 
Brackman laughed affectionately. "Yessir — there's a Martian for you," he said. "Won't even 
get off his case of Malachis for a look at the Space Wanderer." 
Chrono was not alone in his apathy about the Space Wanderer. It was the proud and impudent 
custom of all the concessionaires to stay away from ceremonies — to stay in the twilit tunnel of 
their booths until Rumfoord and his dog had come and gone. 
It wasn't that the concessionaires had real contempt for Rumfoord's religion. Actually, most of 
them thought the new religion was probably a pretty good thing. What they were dramatizing 
when they stayed in their shuttered booths was that they, as Martian veterans, had already done 
more than enough to put the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent on its feet. They were dramatizing the fact of their having been all used up. 
Rumfoord encouraged them in this pose — spoke of them fondly as his ". . . soldier saints 
outside the little door. Their apathy," Rumfoord once said, "is a great wound they suffered that 
we might be more lively, more sensitive, and more free." 
The temptation of the Martian concessionaires to take a peek at the Space Wanderer was great. 
There were loudspeakers on the walls of the Rumfoord estate, and every word spoken by 
Rumfoord inside blatted in the ears of anyone within a quarter of a mile. The words had spoken 
again and again of the glorious moment of truth that would come when the Space Wanderer 
came. 
It was a big moment true believers titillated themselves about — the big moment wherein true 
believers were going to find their beliefs amplified, clarified, and vivified by a factor of ten. 
Now the moment had arrived. 
The fire engine that had carried the Space Wanderer down from the Church of the Space 
Wanderer on Cape Cod was clanging and shrieking outside the booths. 
The trolls in the twilight of the booths refused to peek. 
The cannon roared within the walls. 
Rumfoord and his dog, then, had materialized — and the Space Wanderer was passing in 
through the Alice-in-Wonderland door. "Probably some broken-down actor he hired from New York," said Brackman. 
This got no response from anyone, not even from Chrono, who fancied himself the chief cynic 
of the booths. Brackman didn't take his own suggestion seriously — that the Space Wanderer 
was a fraud. The concessionaires knew all too well about Rumfoord's penchant for realism. 
When Rumfoord staged a passion play, he used nothing but real people in real hells. 
Let it be emphasized here that, passionately fond as Rumfoord was of great spectacles, he 
never gave in to the temptation to declare himself God or something a whole lot like God. 
His worst enemies admit that. Dr. Maurice Rosenau, in his Pan-Galactic Humbug or Three 
Billion Dupes says: Winston Niles Rumfoord, the interstellar Pharisee, Tartufe, and Cagliostro, has 
taken pains to 
declare that he is not God Almighty, that he is not a close relative of God Almighty, and that he 
has received no plain instructions from God Almighty. To these words of the Master of Newport 
we can say Amen! And may we add that Rumfoord is so far from being a relative or agent of God 
Almighty as to make all communication with God Almighty Himself impossible so long as 
Rumfoord is around! 
Ordinarily, talk by the Martian veterans in the shuttered booths was sprightly — bristling with 
entertaining irreverence and tips on selling trashy religious artides to boobs. 
Now, with Rumfoord and the Space Wanderer about to meet, the concessionaires found it very 
hard not to be interested. 
Sergeant Brackman's good hand went up to the crown of his head. It was the characteristic 
gesture of a Martian veteran. He was touching the area over his antenna, over the antenna that 
had once done all his important thinking for him. He missed the signals. 
"Bring the Space Wanderer here!" blatted Rumfoord's voice from the Gabriel horns on the 
walls. "Maybe — maybe we should go," said Brackman to Bee. 
"What?" murmured Bee. She was standing with her back to the closed shutters. Her eyes were 
shut. Her head was down. She looked cold. She always shivered when a materialization was taking place. 
Chrono was rubbing his good-luck piece slowly with the ball of his thumb, watching a halo of 
mist on the cold metal, a halo around the thumb. "The hell with 'em — eh, Chrono?" said Brackman. 
The man who sold twittering mechanical birds swung his wares overhead listlessly. A farm 
wife had stabbed him with a pitchfork in the Battle of Toddington, England, had left him for 
dead. 
The International Committee for the Identification and Rehabilitation of Martians had, with 
the help of fingerprints, identified the bird man as Bernard K. Winslow, an itinerant chicken 
sexer, who had disappeared from the alcoholic ward of a London hospital. 
"Thanks very much for the information," Winslow had told the committee. "Now I don't have 
that lost feeling any more." 
Sergeant Brackman had been identified by the Committee as Private Francis J. Thompson, 
who had disappeared in the dead of night while walking a lonely guard post around a motor pooi 
in Fort Bragg, North Carolina, U.S.A. 
The committee had been baffled by Bee. She had no fingerprints on record. The Committee 
believed her to be either Florence White, a plain and friendless girl who had disappeared from a 
steam laundry in Cohoes, New York, or Darlene Simpkins, a plain and friendless girl who had 
last been seen accepting a ride with a swarthy stranger in Brownsville, Texas. 
And down the line of booths from Brackman and Chrono and Bee were Martian husks who 
had been identified as Myron S. Watson, an alcoholic, who had disappeared from his post as a 
wash room attendant at Newark Airport . . . as Charlene Heller, assistant dietitian of the cafeteria 
of Stivers High School in Dayton, Ohio . . . as Krishna Garu, a typesetter still wanted, 
technically, on charges of bigamy, pandering, and nonsupport in Calcutta, India . . . as Kurt 
Schneider, also an alcoholic, manager of a failing travel agency in Bremen, Germany. 
"The mighty Rumfoord — " said Bee. 
"Pardon me?" said Brackman. 
"He snatched us out of our lives," said Bee. "He put us to sleep. He cleaned out our minds the 
way you dean the seeds out of a jack-o'-lantern. He wired us like robots, trained us, aimed us — 
burned us out in a good cause." She shrugged. 
"Could we have done any better if he'd left us in charge of our own lives?" said Bee. "Would 
we have become any more — or any less? I guess I'm glad he used me. I guess he had a lot better 
ideas about what to do with me than Florence White or Darlene Simpkins or whoever I was. 
"But I hate him all the same," said Bee. 
"That's your privilege," said Brackman. "He said that was the privilege of every Martian." 
"There's one consolation," said Bee. "We're all used up. We'll never be of any use to him 
again." 
"Welcome, Space Wanderer," blatted Rumfoord's oleomargarine tenor from the Gabriel horns 
on the wall. "How meet it is that you should come to us on the bright red pumper of a volunteer 
fire department. I can think of no more stirring symbol of man's humanity to man than a fire 
engine. Tell me, Space Wanderer, do you see anything here — anything that makes you think 
you may have been here before?" 
The Space Wanderer murmured something unintelligible. 
"Louder, please," said Rumfoord. 
"The fountain — I remember that fountain," said the Space Wanderer gropingly. "Only — 
only — " "Only?" said Rumfoord. 
"It was dry then — whenever that was. It's so wet now," said the Space Wanderer. 
A microphone near the fountain was now tuned into the public address system, so that the 
actual babble, spatter and potch of the fountain could underline the Space Wanderer's words. 
"Anything else familiar, oh, Space Wanderer?" said Rumfoord. "Yes," said the Space Wanderer shyly. "You." 
"I am familiar?" said Rumfoord archly. "You mean there's a possibility that I played some 
small part in your life before?" 
"I remember you on Mars," said the Space Wanderer. "You were the man with the dog — just 
before we took off." "What happened after you took off?" said Rumfoord. 
"Something went wrong," said the Space Wanderer. He sounded apologetic, as though the 
series of misfortunes were somehow his own fault. "A lot of things went wrong." 
"Have you ever considered the possibility," said Rumfoord, "that everything went absolutely 
right?" 
"No," said the Space Wanderer simply. The idea did not startle him, could not startle him — 
since the idea proposed was so far beyond the range of his jerry-built philosophy. 
"Would you recognize your mate and child?" said Rumfoord. "I — I don't know," said the Space Wanderer. 
"Bring me the woman and the boy who sell Malachis outside the little iron door," said 
Rumfoord. "Bring Bee and Chrono." 
The Space Wanderer and Winston Niles Rumfoord and Kazak were on a scaffold before the 
mansion. The scaffold was at eye-level for the standing crowd. The scaffold before the mansion 
was a portion of a continuous system of catwalks, ramps, ladders, pulpits, steps, and stages that 
reached into every corner of the estate. 
The system made possible the free and showy circulation of Rumfoord around the grounds, 
unimpeded by crowds. It meant, too, that Rumfoord could offer a glimpse of himself to every 
person on the grounds. 
The system was not suspended magnetically, though it looked like a miracle of levitation. The 
seeming miracle was achieved by means of a cunning use of paint. The underpinnings were 
painted a flat black, while the superstructures were painted flashing gold. 
Television cameras and microphones on booms could follow the system anywhere. 
For night materializations, the superstructures of the system were outlined in flesh-colored 
electric lamps. 
The Space Wanderer was only the thirty-first person to be invited to join Rumfoord on the 
elevated system. 
An assistant had now been dispatched to the Malachi booth outside to bring in the thirtysecond and thirty-third persons to share the eminence. 
Rumfoord did not look well. His color was bad. And, although he smiled as always, his teeth 
seemed to be gnashing behind the smile. His complacent glee had become a caricature, betraying 
the fact that all was not well by any means. 
But on and on the famous smile went. The magnificently snobbish crowd-pleaser held his big 
dog Kazak by a choke chain. The chain was twisted so as to nip warningly into the dog's throat. 
The warning was necessary, since the dog plainly did not like the Space Wanderer. 
The smile faltered for an instant, reminding the crowd of what a load Rumfoord carried for 
them — warning the crowd that he might not be able to carry it forever. 
Rumfoord carried in his palm a microphone and transmitter the size of a penny. When he did 
not want his voice carried to the crowd, he simply smothered the penny in his fist. 
The penny was smothered in his fist now — and he was addressing bits of irony to the Space 
Wanderer that would have bewildered the crowd, had the crowd been able to hear them. 
"This is certainly your day, isn't it?" said Rumfoord. "A perfect love feast from the instant you 
arrived. The crowd simply adores you. Do you adore crowds?" 
The joyful shocks of the day had reduced the Space Wanderer to a childish condition — a 
condition wherein irony and even sarcasm were lost on him. He had been the captive of many 
things in his troubled times. He was now a captive of a crowd that thought he was a marvel. 
"They've certainly been wonderful," he said, in reply to Rumfoord's last question. "They've been 
grand." 
"Oh — they're a grand bunch," said Rumfoord. "No mistake about that. I've been racking my 
brains for the right word to describe them, and you've brought it to me from 
outer space. Grand is what they are." Rumfoord's mind was plainly elsewhere. He wasn't much 
interested in the 
Space Wanderer as a person — hardly looked at him. Neither did he seem very excited about the 
approach of the Space Wanderer's wife and child. 
"Where are they, where are they?" said Rumfoord to an assistant below. "Let's get on with it. 
Let's get it over with." 
The Space Wanderer was finding his adventures so satisfying and stimulating, so splendidly 
staged, that he was shy about asking questions — was afraid that asking questions might make 
him seem ungrateful. 
He realized that he had a terrific ceremonial responsibility and that the best thing to do was to 
keep his mouth shut, to speak only when spoken to, and to make his answers to all questions 
short and artless. 
The Space Wanderer's mind did not teem with questions. The fundamental structure of his 
ceremonial situation was obvious — was as clean and functional as a three- legged milking stool. 
He had suffered mightily, and now he was being rewarded mightily. 
The sudden change in fortunes made a bang-up show. He smiled, understanding the crowd's 
delight — pretending to be in the crowd himself, sharing the crowd's delight. 
Rumfoord read the Space Wanderer's mind. "They'd like it just as much the other way around, 
you know," he said. 
"The other way around?" said the Space Wanderer. 
"If the big reward came first, and then the great suffering," said Rumford. "It's the contrast 
they like. The order of events doesn't make any difference to them. It's the thrill of the fast 
reverse — " Rumfoord opened his fist, exposed the microphone. With his other hand he 
beckoned 
pontifically. He was beckoning to Bee and Chrono, who had been hoisted Onto a tributary of the 
gilded system of catwalks, ramps, ladders, pulpits, steps and stages. "This way, please. We 
haven't got all day, you know," said Rumfoord schoolmarmishly. 
During the lull, the Space Wanderer felt the first real tickle of plans for a good future on Earth. 
With everyone so kind and enthusiastic and peaceful, not only a good life but a perfect life could 
be lived on Earth. 
The Space Wanderer had already been given a fine new suit and a glamorous station in life, 
and his mate and son were to be restored to him in a matter of minutes. 
All that was lacking was a good friend, and the Space Wanderer began to tremble. He 
trembled, for he knew in his heart that his best friend, Stony Stevenson, was hidden somewhere 
on the grounds, awaiting a cue to appear. 
The Space Wanderer smiled, for he was imagining Stony's entrance. Stony would come 
running down a ramp, laughing and a little drunk. "Unk, you bloody bastard — " Stony would 
roar right into the public address system, "by God, I've looked in every flaming pub on bloody 
Earth for you — and here you've been hung up on Mercury the whole bloody time!" 
As Bee and Chrono reached Rumfoord and the Space Wanderer, Rumfoord walked away. Had 
he separated himself from Bee, Chrono, and the Space Wanderer by a mere arm's length, his 
separateness might have been understood. But the gilded system enabled him to put a really 
respectable distance between himself and the three, and not only a distance, but a distance made 
tortuous by rococo and variously symbolic hazards. It was undeniably great theater, notwithstanding Dr. Maurice Rosenau's carping 
comment ( op. 
cit.): "The people who watch reverently as Winston Niles Rumfoord goes dancing over his 
golden jungle gym in Newport are the same idiots one finds in toy stores, gaping reverently at 
toy trains as the trains go chuffa-chuffa-chuffa in and out of papier-mâché tunnels, over toothpick 
trestles, through cardboard cities, and into papier-mâché tunnels again. Will the little trains or 
will Winston Niles Rumfoord chuffa-chuffa-chuffa into view again? Oh, mirabile dictu! . . . they 
will!" 
From the scaffold in front of the mansion Rumfoord went to a stile that arched over the crest 
of a boxwood hedge. On the other side of the stile was a catwalk that ran for ten feet to the trunk 
of a copper beech. The trunk was four feet through. Gilded rungs were fixed to the trunk by lag 
screws. 
Rumfoord tied Kazak to the bottom rung, then climbed out of sight like Jack on the beanstalk. 
From somewhere up in the tree he spoke. His voice came not from the tree but from the Gabriel horns on the walls. 
The crowd weaned its eyes from the leafy treetop, turned its eyes to the nearest loudspeakers. 
Only Bee, Chrono, and the Space Wanderer continued to look up, to look up at where 
Rumfoord really was. This wasn't so much a result of realism as it was a result of embarrassment. By looking up, the members of the little family avoided looking 
at each other. None of the three had any reason to be pleased with the reunion. 
Bee was not drawn to the scrawny, bearded, happy boob in lemon-yellow long underwear. She 
had dreamed of a big, angry, arrogant free-thinker. 
Young Chrono hated the bearded intruder on his sublime relationship with his mother. Chrono 
kissed his good-luck piece and wished that his father, if this really was his father, would drop 
dead. 
And the Space Wanderer himself, sincerely as he tried, could see nothing he would have 
chosen of his own free will in the dark, malevolent mother and son. 
By accident, the Space Wanderer's eyes met the one good eye of Bee. Something had to be 
said. 
"How do you do?" said the Space Wanderer. 
"How do you do?" said Bee. 
They both looked up into the tree again. 
"Oh, my happy, handicapped brethren," said Rumfoord's voice, "let us thank God — God, 
who appreciates our thanks as much as the mighty Mississippi appreciates a raindrop — that we 
are not like Malachi Constant." 
The back of the Space Wanderer's neck ached some. He lowered his gaze. His eyes were 
caught by a long, straight golden runway in the middle distance. His eyes followed it. 
The runway ended at Earth's longest free-standing ladder. The ladder was painted gold, too. 
The Space Wanderer's gaze climbed the ladder to the tiny door of the space ship on top of the 
column. He wondered who would have nerve enough or reason enough to climb such a 
frightening ladder to such a tiny door. 
The Space Wanderer looked at the crowd again. Maybe Stony Stevenson was in the crowd 
somewhere. Maybe he would wait for the whole show to end before he presented himself to his 
best and only friend from Mars. 
CHAPTER ELEVEN 
WE HATE MALACHI CONSTANT BECAUSE . . . "Tell me one good thing you ever did in your life." — WINSTON NILES RUMFOORD 
And this is how the sermon went: 
"We are disgusted by Malachi Constant," said Winston Niles Rumfoord up in his treetop, 
"because he used the fantastic fruits of his fantastic good luck to finance an unending 
demonstration that man is a pig. He wallowed in sycophants. He wallowed in worthless women. 
He wallowed in lascivious entertainments and alcohol and drugs. He wallowed in every known 
form of voluptuous turpitude. 
"At the height of his good luck, Malachi Constant was worth more than the states of Utah and 
North Dakota combined. Yet, I daresay, his moral worth was not that of the most corrupt little 
fleidmouse in either state. 
"We are angered by Malachi Constant," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "because he did 
nothing to deserve his billions, and because he did nothing unselfish or imaginative with his 
billions. He was as benevolent as Marie Antoinette, as creative as a professor of cosmetology in 
an embalming college. 
"We hate Malachi Constant," said Rumford up in his treetop, "because he accepted the 
fantastic fruits of his fantastic good luck, without a qualm, as though luck were the hand of God. 
To us of the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent, there is nothing more cruel, more dangerous, 
more blasphemous that a man can do than to believe that — that luck, good or bad, is the hand of 
God! "Luck, good or bad," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "is not the hand of God. 
"Luck," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "is the way the wind swirls and the dust settles eons 
after God has passed by. "Space Wanderer!" called Rumfoord from up in his treetop. 
The Space Wanderer was not paying strict attention. His powers of concentration were feeble 
— possibly because he had been in the caves too long, or on goofballs too long, or in the Army 
of Mars too long. 
He was watching clouds. They were lovely things, and the sky they drifted in was, to the 
color-starved Space Wanderer, a thrilling blue. 
"Space Wanderer!" called Rumfoord again. 
"You in the yellow suit," said Bee. She nudged him. "Wake up." 
"Pardon me?" said the Space Wanderer. 
"Space Wanderer!" called Rumfoord. 
The Space Wanderer snapped to attention. "Yes, sir?" he called up into the leafy bower. The 
greeting was ingenuous, cheerful, and winsome. A microphone on the end of a boom was swung 
to dangle before him. 
"Space Wanderer!" called Rumfoord, and he was peeved now, for the ceremonial flow was 
being impeded. 
"Right here, sir!" cried the Space Wanderer. His reply boomed earsplittingly from the 
loudspeaker. 
"Who are you?" said Rumford. "What is your real name?" 
"I don't know my real name," said the Space Wanderer. "They called me Unk." 
"What happened to you before you arrived back on Earth, Unk?" said Rumfoord. 
The Space Wanderer beamed. He had been led to a repetition of the simple statement that had 
caused so much laughing and dancing and singing on Cape Cod. "I was a victim of a series of 
accidents, as are we all," he said. There was no laughing and dancing and singing this time, but the crowd was 
definitely in 
favor of what the Space Wanderer had said. Chins were raised, and eyes were widened, and 
nostrils were flared. There was no outcry, for the crowd wanted to hear absolutely everything 
that Rumfoord and the Space Wanderer might have to say. 
"A victim of a series of accidents, were you?" said Rumfoord up in his treetop. "Of all the 
accidents," he said, "which would you consider the most significant?" The Space Wanderer cocked his head. "I'd have to think — " he said. 
"I'll spare you the trouble," said Rumfoord. "The most significant accident that happened to 
you was your being born. Would you like me to tell you what you were named when you were 
born?" 
The Space Wanderer hesitated only a moment, and all that made him hesitate was a fear that 
he was going to spoil a very gratifying ceremonial career by saying the wrong thing. "Please do," 
he said. "They called you Malachi Constant," said Rumfoord up in his treetop. 
To the extent that crowds can be good things, the crowds that Winston Niles Rumfoord 
attracted to Newport were good crowds. They were not crowd-minded. The members remained 
in possession of their own consciences, and Rumfoord never invited them to participate as one in 
any action — least of all in applause or catcalls. 
When the fact had sunk in that the Space Wanderer was the disgusting, irking, and hateful 
Malachi Constant, the members of the crowd reacted in quiet, sighing, personal ways — ways 
that were by and large compassionate. It was on their generally decent consciences, after all, that 
they had hanged Constant in effigy in their homes and places of work. And, while they had been 
cheerful enough about hanging the effigies, very few felt that Constant, in the flesh, actually 
deserved hanging. Hanging Malachi Constant in effigy was an act of violence on the order of 
trimming a Christmas tree or hiding Easter eggs. 
And Rumfoord up in his treetop said nothing to discourage their compassion. "You have had 
the singular accident, Mr. Constant," he said sympathetically, "of becoming a central symbol of 
wrong-headedness for a perfectly enormous religious sect. 
"You would not be attractive to us as a symbol, Mr. Constant," he said, "if our hearts did not 
go out to you to a certain extent. Our hearts have to go out to you, since all your flamboyant 
errors are errors that human beings have made since the beginning of time. 
"In a few minutes, Mr. Constant," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "you are going to walk 
down the catwalks and ramps to that long golden ladder, and you are going to climb that ladder, 
and you are going to get into that space ship, and you are going to fly away to Titan, a warm and 
fecund moon of Saturn. You will live there in safety and comfort, but in exile from your native 
Earth. 
"You are going to do this voluntarily, Mr. Constant, so that the Church of God the Utterly 
Indifferent can have a drama of dignified self-sacrifice to remember and ponder through all time. 
"We will imagine, to our spiritual satisfaction," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "that you are 
taking all mistaken ideas about the meaning of luck, all misused wealth and power, and all 
disgusting pastimes with you." 
The man who had been Malachi Constant, who had been Unk, who had been the Space 
Wanderer, the man who was Malachi Constant again — that man felt very little upon being 
declared Malachi Constant again. He might, possibly, have felt some interesting things, had 
Rumfoord's timing been different. But Rumfoord told him what his ordeal was to be only 
seconds after telling him he was Malachi Constant — and the ordeal was sufficiently ghastly to 
command Constant's full attention. 
The ordeal had been promised not in years or months or days — but in minutes. And, like any 
condemned criminal, Malachi Constant became a student, to the exclusion of all else, of the 
apparatus on which he was about to perform. 
Curiously, his first worry was that he would stumble, that he would think too hard about the 
simple matter of walking, and that his feet would cease to work naturally, and that be would 
stumble on those wooden feet. 
"You won't stumble, Mr. Constant," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, reading Constant's mind. 
"There is nowhere else for you to go, nothing else for you to do. By putting one foot in front of 
the other, while we watch in silence, you will make of yourself the most memorable, 
magnificent, and meaningful human being of modern times." 
Constant turned to look at his dusky mate and child. Their gazes were direct. Constant learned 
from their gazes that Rumfoord had spoken the truth, that no course save the course to the space 
ship was open to him. Beatrice and young Chrono were supremely cynical about the festivities 
— but not about courageous behavior in the midst of them. They dared Malachi Constant to behave well. 
Constant rubbed his left thumb and index finger together in a careful rotary motion. He 
watched this. pointless enterprise for perhaps ten seconds. 
And then he dropped his hands to his sides, raised his eyes, and stepped off firmly toward the 
space ship. As his left foot struck the ramp, his head was filled with a sound he had not heard for 
three Earthling years. The sound was coming from the antenna under the crown of his skull. 
Rumfoord, up in his treetop, was sending signals to Constant's antenna by means of a small box 
in his pocket. 
He was making Constant's long and lonely walk more bearable by filling Constant's head with 
the sound of a snare drum. The snare drum had this to say to him: Rented a tent, a tent, a tent; Rented a tent, a tent. Rented a tent! Rented a tent! Rented a, rented a tent! The snare drum fell silent as Malachi Constant's hand closed for the first time on 
a gilded rung of 
the world's tallest free-standing ladder. He looked up, and perspective made the ladder's summit 
seem as tiny as a needle. Constant rested his brow for a moment against the rung to which his 
hand clung. 
"You have something you would like to say, Mr. Constant, before you go up the ladder?" said 
Rumfoord up in his treetop. 
A microphone on the end of a boom was again dangled before Constant. Constant licked his 
lips. "You're about to say something, Mr. Constant?" said Rumfoord. 
"If you're going to talk," the technician in charge of the microphone said to Constant, "speak 
in a perfectly normal tone, and keep your lips about six inches away from the microphone." 
"You're going to speak to us, Mr. Constant?" said Rumfoord. 
"It — it's probably not worth saying," said Constant quietly, "but I'd still like to say that I 
haven't understood a single thing that's happened to me since I reached Earth." 
"You haven't got that feeling of participation?" said Rumfoord up in his treetop. "Is that it?" 
"It doesn't matter," said Constant. "I'm still going up the ladder." "Well," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "if you feel we are doing you some sort 
of injustice 
here, suppose you tell us something really good you've done at some point in your life, and let us 
decide whether that piece of goodness might excuse you from this thing we have planned for 
you." "Goodness?" said Constant. 
"Yes," said Rumfoord expansively. "Tell me one good thing you ever did in your life — what 
you can remember of it." 
Constant thought hard. His principal memories were of scuttling through endless corridors in 
the caves. There had been a few opportunities for what might pass for goodness with Boaz and 
the harmoniums. But Constant could not say honestly that he had availed himself of these 
opportunities to be good. 
So he thought about Mars, about all the things that had been contained in his letter to himself. 
Surely, among all those items, there was something about his own goodness. 
And then he remembered Stony Stevenson — his friend. He had had a friend, which was 
certainly a good thing. "I had a friend," said Malachi Constant into the microphone. 
"What was his name?" said Rumfoord. 
"Stony Stevenson," said Constant. 
"Just one friend?" said Rumfoord up in his treetop. "Just one," said Constant. His poor soul 
was flooded with pleasure as he realized that one friend was all that a man needed in order to be 
well-supplied with friendship. 
"So your claim of goodness would stand or fall, really," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, 
"depending on how good a friend you really were of this Stony Stevenson." "Yes," said Constant. 
"Do you recall an execution on Mars, Mr. Constant," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, 
"wherein you were the executioner? You strangled a man at the' stake before three regiments of 
the Army of Mars." 
This was one memory that Constant had done his best to eradicate. He had been successful to 
a large extent — and the rummaging he did through his mind now was sincere. He couldn't be 
sure that the execution bad taken place. "I — I think I remember," said Constant. 
"Well — that man you strangled was your great and good friend Stony Stevenson," said 
Winston Niles Rumfoord. 
Malachi Constant wept as he climbed the gilded ladder. He paused halfway up, and Rumfoord 
called to him again through the loudspeakers. 
"Feel more like a vitally-interested participant now, Mr. Constant?" called Rumfoord. 
Mr. Constant did. He had a thorough understanding now of his own worthlessness, and a bitter 
sympathy for anyone who might find it good to handle him roughly. 
And when he got to the top, he was told by Rumfoord not to close the airlock yet, because his 
mate and child would be up shortly. 
Constant sat on the threshold of his space ship at the top of the ladder, and listened to 
Rumfoord's brief sermon about Constant's dark mate, about the one. eyed, gold- toothed woman 
called Bee. Constant did not listen closely to the sermon. His eyes saw a larger, more comforting 
sermon in the panorama of town, bay, and islands so far below. 
The sermon of the panorama was that even a man without a friend in the Universe could still 
find his home planet mysteriously, heartbreakingly beautiful. 
"I shall tell you now," said Winston Niles Rumfoord in his treetop so far below Malachi 
Constant, "about Bee, the woman who sells Malachis outside the gate, the dark woman who, 
with her son, now glowers at us all. 
"While she was en route to Mars so many years ago, Malachi Constant forced his attention on 
her, and she bore him this son. Before then, she was my wife and the mistress of this estate. Her 
true name is Beatrice Rumfoord." 
A groan went up from the crowd. Was it any wonder that the dusty puppets of other religions 
had been put away for want of audiences, that all eyes were turned to Newport? Not only was the 
head of the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent capable of telling the future and fighting the 
cruelest inequalities of all, inequalities in luck — but his supply of dumfounding new sensations 
was inexhaustible. 
He was so well supplied with great material that he could actually let his voice trail off as he 
announced that the one-eyed, gold-toothed woman was his wife, and that he had been cuckolded 
by Malachi Constant. 
"I now invite you to despise the example of her life as you have so long despised the example 
of the life of Malachi Constant," he said up in his treetop mildly. "Hang her alongside Malachi 
Constant from your window blinds and light fixtures, if you will. 
"The excesses of Beatrice were excesses of reluctance," said Rumfoord. "As a younger 
woman, she felt so exquisitely bred as to do nothing and to allow nothing to be done to her, for 
fear of contamination. Life, for Beatrice as a younger woman, was too full of germs and 
vulgarity to be anything but intolerable. 
"We of the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent damn her as roundly for refusing to risk her 
imagined purity in living as we damn Malachi Constant for wallowing in filth. 
"It was implicit in Beatrice's every attitude that she was intellectually, morally, and physically 
what God intended human beings to be when perfected, and that the rest of humanity needed 
another ten thousand years in which to catch up. Again we have a case of an ordinary and 
uncreative person's tickling God Almighty pink. The proposition that God Almighty admired 
Beatrice for her touch-me-not breeding is at least as questionable as the proposition that God 
Almighty wanted Malachi Constant to be rich. 
"Mrs. Rumfoord," said Winston Niles Rumfoord up in his treetop, "I now invite you and your 
son to follow Malachi Constant into the space ship bound for Titan. Is there something you 
would like to say before you leave?" 
There was a long silence in which mother and son drew closer together and looked, shoulder 
to shoulder, at a world much changed by the news of the day. "Are you planning to address us, Mrs. Rumfoord?" said Rumfoord up in his 
treetop. 
"Yes," said Beatrice. "But it won't take me long. I believe everything you say about me is true, 
since you so seldom lie. But when my son and I walk together to that ladder and climb it, we will 
not be doing it for you, or for your silly crowd. We will be doing it for ourselves — and we will 
be proving to ourselves and to anybody who wants to watch that we aren't afraid of anything. 
Our hearts won't be breaking when we leave this planet. It disgusts us at least as much as we, 
under your guidance, disgust it. 
"I do not recall the old days," said Beatrice, "when I was mistress of this estate, when I could 
not stand to do anything or to have anything done to me. But I loved myself the instant you told 
me I'd been that way. The human race is a scummy thing, and so is Earth, and so are you." 
Beatrice and Chrono walked quickly over the catwalks and ramps to the ladder, climbed the 
ladder. They brushed past Malachi Constant in the doorway of the space ship without any sort of 
greeting. They disappeared inside. 
Constant followed them into the space ship, and joined them as they considered the 
accommodations. 
The condition of the accommodations was a surprise — and would have been a surprise to the 
custodians of the estate in particular. The space ship, seemingly inviolable at the top of a shaft in 
sacred precincts patrolled by watchmen, had plainly been the scene of one or perhaps several 
wild parties. 
The bunks were all unmade. The bedding was rumpled, twisted, and wadded. The sheets were 
stained with lipstick and shoe polish. Fried clams crunched greasily underfoot. 
Two quart bottles of Mountain Moonlight, one pint of Southern Comfort, and a dozen cans of 
Narragansett Lager Beer, all empty, were scattered through the ship. Two names were written in lipstick on the white wall by the door: Bud and 
Sylvia. And from a flange on the central shaft in the cabin hung a black brassière. 
Beatrice gathered up the bottles and beer cans. She dropped them out the door. She took the 
brassière down, and fluttered it out the doorway, awaiting a favorable wind. 
Malachi Constant, sighing and shaking his bead and mourning Stony Stevenson, used his feet 
for pushbrooms. He scuffed the fried clams toward the door. 
Young Chrono sat on a bunk, rubbing his good-luck piece. "Let's go, Mom," he said tautly. 
"For crying out loud, let's go." 
Beatrice let go of the brassière. A gust caught it, carried it over the crowd, hung it in a tree 
next to the tree in which Rumfoord sat. "Good-by, all you clean and wise and lovely people," said Beatrice. 
CHAPTER TWELVE THE GENTLEMAN FROM 
TRALFAMADORE 
"In a punctual way of speaking, good-by." 
— WINSTON NILES RUMFOORD 
Saturn has nine moons, the greatest of which is Titan. Titan is only slightly smaller than Mars. 
Titan is the only moon in the Solar System that has an atmosphere. There is plenty of oxygen to 
breathe. The atmosphere of Titan is like the atmosphere outside the back door of an Earthling 
bakery on a spring morning. 
Titan has a natural chemical furnace at its core that maintains a uniform air temperature of 
sixty-seven degrees Fahrenheit. 
There are three seas on Titan: each the size of Earthling Lake Michigan. The waters of all 
three are fresh and emerald clear. The names of the three are the Winston Sea, the Niles Sea, and 
the Rumfoord Sea. 
There is a cluster of ninety-three ponds and lakes, incipiently a fourth sea. The cluster is 
known as the Kazak Pools. 
Connecting the Winston Sea, the Niles Sea, the Rumfoord Sea and the Kazak Pools are three 
great rivers. These rivers, with their tributaries, are moody — variously roaring, listless, and torn. 
Their moods are determined by the wildly fluctuating tugs of eight fellow moons, and by the 
prodigious influence of Saturn, which has ninety-five times the mass of Earth. The three rivers 
are known as the Winston River, the Niles River, and the Rumfoord River. There are woods and meadows and mountains. 
The tallest mountain is Mount Rumfoord, which is nine thousand, five hundred and seventyone feet high. 
Titan affords an incomparable view of the most appallingly beautiful things in the Solar 
System, the rings of Saturn. These dazzling bands are forty thousand miles across and scarcely 
thicker than a razor blade. 
On Titan the rings are called Rumfoord's Rainbow. 
Saturn describes a circle around the Sun. 
It does it once every twenty-nine and a half Earthling years. 
Titan describes a circle around Saturn. 
Titan describes, as a consequence, a spiral around the Sun. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord and his dog Kazak were wave phenomena — pulsing in distorted 
spirals, with their origins in the Sun and their terminals in Betelgeuse. Whenever 
a heavenly body intercepted their spirals, Rumfoord and his dog materialized on that body. 
For reasons as yet mysterious, the spirals of Rumfoord, Kazak, and Titan coincided exactly. 
So Rumfoord and his dog were permanently materialized on Titan. 
Rumfoord and Kazak lived there on an island one mile from shore in the Winston Sea. Their 
home was a flawless reproduction of the Taj Mahal in Earthling India. 
It was built by Martian labor. 
It was Rumfood's wry fancy to call his Titan home Dun Roamin. 
Before the arrival of Malachi Constant, Beatrice, Rumfoord, and Chrono, there was only one 
other person on Titan. That other person was named Salo. He was old. Salo was eleven million 
Earthling years old. 
Salo was from another galaxy, from the Small Magellanic Cloud. He was four and a half feet 
tall. Salo had a skin with the texture and color of the skin of an Earthling tangerine. 
Salo had three light deer-like legs. His feet were of an extraordinarily interesting design, each 
being an inflatable sphere. By inflating these spheres to the size of German batballs, Salo could 
walk on water. By reducing them to the size of golf balls, Salo could bound over hard surfaces at 
high speeds. When he deflated the spheres entirely, his feet became suction cups. Salo could 
walk up walls. 
Salo had no arms. Salo had three eyes, and his eyes could perceive not only the so-called 
visible spectrum, but infrared and ultraviolet and X-rays as well. Salo was punctual — that is, he 
lived one moment at a time — and he liked to tell Rumfoord that he would rather see the 
wonderful colors at the far ends of the spectrum than either the past or the future. 
This was something of a weasel, since Salo had seen, living a moment at a time, far more of 
the past and far more of the Universe than Rumfoord had. He remembered more of what he had 
seen, too. Salo's head was round and hung on gimbals. 
His voice was an electric noise-maker that sounded like a bicycle horn. He spoke five 
thousand languages, fifty of them Earthling languages, thirty-one of them dead Earthling 
languages. 
Salo didn't live in a palace, though Rumfoord had offered to have one built for him. Salo lived 
in the open, near the space ship that had brought him to Titan two hundred thousand years 
before. His space ship was a flying saucer, the prototype for the Martian 
invasion fleet. Salo had an interesting history. 
In the Earthling year 483,441 B.C., he was chosen by popular telepathic enthusiasm as the 
most handsome, healthy, clean-minded specimen of his people. The occasion was the hundredmillionth anniversary of the government of his home planet in the Small Magellanic Cloud. The 
name of his home planet was Tralfamadore, which old Salo once translated for Rumfoord as 
meaning both all of us and the number 541. The length of a year on his home planet, according to his own calculations, was 
3.6162 times 
the length of an Earthling year — so the celebration in which he participated was actually in 
honor of a government 361, 620,000 Earthling years old. Salo once described this durable form 
of government to Rumfoord as hypnotic anarchy, but declined to explain its workings. "Either 
you understand at once what it is," he told Rumfoord, "or there is no sense in trying to explain it 
to you, Skip." 
His duty, when he was 'elected to represent Tralfamadore, was to carry a sealed message from 
"One Rim of the Universe to the Other." The planners of the ceremonies were not so deluded as 
to believe that Salo's projected route spanned the Universe. The image was 
poetic, as was Salo's 
expedition. Salo would simply take the message and go as fast and as far as the technology of 
Tralfamadore could send him. 
The message itself was unknown to Salo. It had been prepared by what Salo described to 
Rumfoord as, "A kind of university — only nobody goes to it. There aren't any buildings, isn't 
any faculty. Everybody's in it and nobody's in it. It's like a cloud that everybody has given a little 
puff of mist to, and then the cloud does all the heavy thinking for everybody. I don't mean there's 
reall y a cloud. I just mean it's something like that. If you don't understand what I'm talking about, 
Skip, there's no sense in trying to explain it to you. All I can say is, there aren't any meetings." 
The message was contained in a sealed lead wafer that was two inches square and threeeighths of an inch thick. The wafer itself was contained in a gold mesh reticule which was hung 
on a stainless steel band clamped to the shaft that might be called Salo's neck. 
Salo had orders, not to open the reticule and wafer until he arrived at his destination. His 
destination was not Titan. His destination was in a galaxy that began eighteen million light-years 
beyond Titan. The planners of the ceremonies in which Salo had participated did not know what 
Salo was going to find in the galaxy. His instructions were to find creatures in it somewhere, to 
master their language, to open the message, and to translate it for them. 
Salo did not question the good sense of his errand, since he was, like all Tralfamadorians, a 
machine. As a machine, he had to do what he was supposed to do. 
Of all the orders Salo received before taking off from Tralfamadore, the one that was given the 
most importance was that he was not, under any circumstances, to open the message along the 
wa y. This order was so emphasized that it became the very core of the little 
Tralfamadorian messenger's being. 
In the Earthling year 208,117 B.C., Salo was forced down in the Solar System by mechanical 
difficulties. He was forced down by a complete disintegration of a small part in his ship's power 
plant, a part about the size of an Earthling beer-can opener. Salo was not mechanically inclined, 
and so had only a hazy idea as to what the missing part looked like or was supposed to do. Since 
Salo's ship was powered by UWTB, the Universal Will to Become, its power plant was nothing 
for a mechanical dilettante to tinker with. Salo's ship wasn't entirely out of commission. It would still run — but limpingly, 
at only about 
sixty. eight thousand miles an hour. It was adequate for short hops around the Solar System, even 
in its crippled condition, and copies of the crippled ship did yeoman service for the Martian war 
effort. But the crippled ship was impossibly slow for the purposes of Salo's intergalactic errand. 
So old Salo holed up on Titan and he sent home to Tralfamadore word of his plight. He sent 
the message home with the speed of light, which meant that it would take one hundred and fifty 
thousand Earthling years to get to Tralfamadore. 
He developed several hobbies that helped him to pass the time. Chief among these were 
sculpture, the breeding of Titanic daisies, and watching the various activities on Earth. He could 
watch the activities on Earth by means of a viewer on the dash panel of his ship. The viewer was 
sufficiently powerful to let Salo follow the activities of Earthling ants, if he so wished. 
It was through this viewer that he got his first reply from Tralfamadore. The reply was written 
on Earth in huge stones on a plain in what is now England. The ruins of the reply still stand, and 
are known as Stonehenge. The meaning of Stonehenge in Tralfamadorian, when viewed from 
above, is: " Replacement part being rushed with all possible speed." 
Stonehenge wasn't the only message old Salo had received. 
There had been four others, all of them written on Earth. 
The Great Wall of China means in Tralfamadorian, when viewed from above: " 
Be patient. We haven't forgotten about you." 
The Golden House of the Roman Emperor Nero meant: " We are doing the best we can." 
The meaning of the Moscow Kremlin when it was first walled was: " You will be on your way 
before you know it." The meaning of the Palace of the League of Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, is: 
" Pack up your things and be ready to leave on short notice." 
Simple arithmetic will reveal that these messages all arrived with speeds considerably in 
excess of the speed of light. Salo had sent his message of distress home with the speed of light, 
and it had taken one hundred and fifty thousand years to reach Tralfamadore. He had received a 
reply from Tralfamadore in less than fifty thousand years. It is grotesque for anyone as primitive as an Earthling to explain how these swift 
communications were effected. Suffice it to say, in such primitive company, that the 
Tralfamadorians were able to make certain impulses from the Universal Will to 
Become echo 
through the vaulted architecture of the Universe with about three times the speed of light. And 
they were able to focus and modulate these impulses so as to influence creatures far, far away, 
and inspire them to serve Tralfamadorian ends. 
It was a marvelous way to get things done in places far, far away from Tralfamadore. it was 
easily the fastest way. But it wasn't cheap. 
Old Salo was not equipped himself to communicate and get things done in this way, even over 
short distances. The apparatus and the quantities of Universal Will to Become used in the process 
were colossal, and they demanded the services of thousands of technicians. 
And even the heavily-powered, heavily-manned, heavily-built apparatus of Tralfamadore was 
not particularly accurate. Old Salo had watched many communications failures on Earth. 
Civilizations would start to bloom on Earth, and the participants would start to build tremendous 
structures that were obviously to be messages in Tralfamadorian — and then the civilizations 
would poop out without having finished the messages. 
Old Salo had seen this happen hundreds of times. Old Salo had told his friend Rumfoord a lot 
of interesting things about the civilization of Tralfamadore, but he had never told Rumfoord 
about the messages and the techniques of their delivery. 
All that he had told Rumfoord was that he had sent home a distress message, and that he 
expected a replacement part to come any day now. Old Salo's mind was so different from 
Rumfoord's that Rumfoord couldn't read Salo's mind. 
Salo was grateful for that barrier between their thoughts, because he was mortally afraid of 
what Rumfoord might say if he found out that Salo's people had so much to do with gumming up 
the history of Earth. Even though Rumfoord was chrono-synclastic infundibulated, and might be 
expected to take a larger view of things, Salo had found Rumfoord to be, still, a' surprisingly 
parochial Earthling at heart. 
Old Salo didn't want Rumfoord to find out what the Tralfamadorians were doing to Earth, 
because he was sure that Rumfoord would be offended — that Rumfoord would turn against 
Salo and all Tralfamadorians. Salo didn't think he could stand that, because he loved Winston 
Niles Rumfoord. 
There was nothing offensive in this love. That is to say, it wasn't homosexual. It couldn't be, 
since Salo had no sex. 
He was a machine, like all Tralfamadorians. 
He was held together by cotter pins, hose clamps, nuts, bolts, and magnets. Salo's tangerinecolored skin, which was so expressive when he was emotionally disturbed, could be put on or 
taken off like an Earthling wind-breaker. A magnetic zipper held it shut. 
The Tralfamadorians, according to Salo, manufactured each other. No one knew for certain 
how the first machine had come into being. 
The legend was this: 
Once upon a time on Tralfamadore there were creatures who weren't anything like machines. 
They weren't dependable. They weren't efficient. They weren't predictable. They weren't durable. 
And these poor creatures were obsessed by the idea that everything that existed had to have a 
purpose, and that some purposes were higher than others. 
These creatures spent most of their time trying to find out what their purpose was. And every 
time they found out what seemed to be a purpose of themselves, the purpose seemed so low that 
the creatures were filled with disgust and shame. 
And, rather than serve such a low purpose, the creatures would make a machine to serve it. 
This left the creatures free to serve higher purposes. But whenever they found a higher purpose, 
the purpose still wasn't high enough. So machines were made to serve higher purposes, too. 
And the machines did everything so expertly that they were finally given the job of finding out 
what the highest purpose of the creatures could be. 
The machines reported in all honesty that the creatures couldn't really be said to have any 
purpose at all. 
The creatures thereupon began slaying each other, because they hated purposeless things 
above all else. And they discovered that they weren't even very good at slaying. So they turned 
that job over to the machines, too. And the machines finished up the job in less time than it takes 
to say, "Tralfamadore." 
Using the viewer on the dash panel of his space ship, Old Salo now watched the approach to 
Titan of the space ship carrying Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, and their son Chrono. 
Their ship was set to land automatically on the shore of the Winston Sea. 
It was set to land amid two million life-sized statues of human beings. Salo had made the 
statues at the rate of about ten an Earthling year. 
The statues were concentrated in the region of the Winston Sea because the statues were made 
of Titanic peat. Titanic peat abounds by the Winston Sea, only two feet under the surface soil. 
Titanic peat is a curious substance — and, for the facile and sincere sculptor, an attractive one. 
When first dug, Titanic peat has the consistency of Earthling putty. 
After one hour's exposure to Titan's light and air, the peat has the strength and hardness of 
plaster of Paris. 
After two hours' exposure, it is as durable as granite, and must be worked with a cold chisel. 
After three hours' exposure, nothing but a diamond will scratch Titanic peat. 
Salo was inspired to make so many statues by the showy ways in which Earthlings behaved. It 
wasn't so much what the Earthlings did as the way they did it that inspired Salo. 
The Earthlings behaved at all times as though there were a big eye in the sky — as though that 
big eye were ravenous for entertainment. 
The big eye was a glutton for great theater. The big eye was indifferent as to whether the 
Earthling shows were comedy, tragedy, farce, satire, athletics, or vaudeville. Its demand, which 
Earthings apparently found as irresistible as gravity, was that the shows be great. 
The demand was so powerful that Earthlings did almost nothing but perform for it, night and 
day — and even in their dreams. 
The big eye was the only audience that Earthlings really cared about. The fanciest 
performances that Salo had seen bad been put on by Earthlings who were terribly alone. The 
imagined big eye was their only audience. 
Salo, with his diamond-hard statues, had tried to preserve some of the mental states of those 
Earthlings who had put on the most interesting shows for the imagined big eye. 
Hardly less surprising than the statues were the Titanic daisies that abounded by the Winston 
Sea. When Salo arrived on Titan in 203,117 B.C, the blooms of Titanic daisies were tiny, starlike, yellow flowers barely a quarter of an inch across. 
Then Salo began to breed them selectively. 
When Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, and their son Chrono arrived on Titan, the 
typical Titanic daisy had a stalk four feet in diameter, and a lavender bloom shot with pink and 
having a mass in excess of a ton. 
Salo, having watched the approaching space ship of Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, 
and their son Chrono, inflated his feet to the size of German batballs. He stepped onto the 
emerald clear waters of the Winston Sea, crossed the waters to Winston Niles Rumfoord's Taj 
Mahal. He entered the walled yard of the palace, let the air out of his feet. The air 
hissed. The hiss 
echoed from the walls. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord's lavender contour chair by the pool was empty. 
"Skip?" called Salo. He used this most intimate of all possible names for Rumfoord, 
Rumfoord's childhood name, in spite of Rumfoord's resentment of his use of it. He didn't use the 
name in order to tease Rumfoord. He used it in order to assert the friendship he felt for 
Rumfoord — to test the friendship a little, and to watch it endure the test handsomely. 
There was a reason for Salo's putting friendship to such a sophomoric test. He had never seen, 
never even heard of friendship before he hit the Solar System. It was a fascinating novelty to 
him. He had to play with it. "Skip?" Salo called again. 
There was an unusual tang in the air. Salo identified it tentatively as ozone. He was unable to 
account for it. 
A cigarette still burned in the ash tray by Rumfoord's contour chair, so Rumfoord hadn't been 
out of his chair long. 
"Skip? Kazak?" called Salo. It was unusual for Rumfoord not to be snoozing in his chair, for 
Kazak not to be snoozing beside it. Man and dog spent most of their time by the pooi, monitoring 
signals from their other selves through space and time. Rumfoord was usually motionless in his 
chair, the fingers of one languid, dangling hand buried in Kazak's coat. Kazak was usually 
whimpering and twitching dreamingly. 
Salo looked down into the water of the rectangular pool. In the bottom of the pooi, in eight 
feet of water, were the three sirens of Titan, the three beautiful human females who had been 
offered to the lecherous Malachi Constant so long ago. 
They were statues made by Salo of Titanic peat. Of the millions of statues made by Salo, only 
these three were painted with lifelike colors. It had been necessary to paint them in order to give 
them importance in the sumptuous, oriental scheme of things in Rumfoord's palace. 
"Skip?" Salo called again. 
Kazak, the hound of space, answered the call. Kazak came from the domed and minareted 
building that was reflected in the pool. Kazak came stiffly from the lacy shadows of the great 
octagonal chamber within. Kazak looked poisoned. Kazak shivered, and stared fixedly at a point to one side of Salo. There was 
nothing there. 
Kazak stopped, and seemed to be preparing himself for a terrible pain that another step would 
cost him. And then Kazak blazed and crackled with Saint Elmo's fire. 
Saint Elmo's fire is a luminous electrical discharge, and any creature afflicted by it is subject 
to discomfort no worse than the discomfort of being tickled by a feather. All the same, the 
creature appears to be on fire, and can be forgiven for being dismayed. 
The luminous discharge from Kazak was horrifying to watch. And it renewed the stench of 
ozone. 
Kazak did not move. His capacity for surprise at the amazing display had long since been 
exhausted. He tolerated the blaze with tired rue. The blaze died. 
Rumfoord appeared in the archway. He, too, looked frowzy and palsied. A band of 
dematerialization, a band of nothingness about a foot wide, passed over Rumfoord from foot to 
head. This was followed by two narrow bands an inch apart. 
Rumfoord held his hands high, and his fingers were spread. Streaks of pink, violet, and pale 
green Saint Elmo's fire streamed from his fingertips. Short streaks of pale gold 
fizzed in his hair, 
conspiring to give him a tinsel halo. 
"Peace," said Rumfoord wanly. 
Rumfoord's Saint Elmo's fire died. 
Salo was aghast. "Skip — " he said. "What's — what's the matter, Skip?" 
"Sunspots," said Rumfoord. He shuffled to his lavender contour chair, lay his- great frame on 
it, covered his eyes with a hand as limp and white as a damp handkerchief. Kazak lay down beside him. Kazak was shivering. 
"I — I've never seen you like this before," said Salo. "There's never been a storm on the Sun 
like this before," said Rumfoord. 
Salo was not surprised to learn that sunspots affected his chrono-syndastic infundibulated 
friends. He had seen Rumfoord and Kazak sick with sunspots many times before — but the most 
severe symptom had been fleeting nausea. The sparks and the bands of dematerialization were 
new. 
As Salo watched Rumfoord and Kazak now, they became momentarily two- dimensional, like 
figures painted on rippling banners. They steadied, became rounded again. "Is there anything I can do, Skip?" said Salo. 
Rumfoord groaned. "Will people never stop asking that dreadful question?" he said. 
"Sorry," said Salo. His feet were so completely deflated now that they were concave, were 
suction cups. His feet made sucking sounds on the polished pavement. "Do you have to make those noises?" said Rumfoord peevishly. 
Old Salo wanted to die. It was the first time his friend Winston Niles Rumfoord had spoken a 
harsh word to him. Salo couldn't stand it. 
Old Salo closed two of his three eyes. The third scanned the sky. The eye was caught by two 
streaking blue dots in the sky. The dots were soaring Titanic bluebirds. 
The pair had found an updraft. 
Neither great bird flapped a wing. 
No movement of so much as a pinfeather was inharmonious. Life was but a soaring dream. 
" Graw," said one Titanic bluebird sociably. 
" Graw," the other agreed. 
The birds closed their wings simultaneously, fell from the heights like stones. 
They seemed to plummet to certain death outside Rumfoord's walls. But up they soared again, 
to begin another long and easy climb. 
This time they climbed a sky that was streaked by the vapor trail of the space ship carrying 
Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, and their son Chrono. The ship was about to land. 
"Skip — ?" said Salo. 
"Do you have to call me that?" said Rumfoord. 
"No," said Salo. 
"Then don't," said Rumfoord. "I'm not fond of the name — unless somebody I've grown up 
with happens to use it." 
"I thought — as a friend of yours — " said Salo, "I might be entitled — " 
"Shall we just drop this guise of friendship?" said Rumfoord curtly. 
Salo dosed his third eye. The skin of his torso tightened. "Guise?" he said. 
"Your feet are making that noise again!" said Rumfoord. 
"Skip!" cried Salo. He corrected this insufferable familiarity. " Winston — it's like a nightmare, 
your talking to me this way. I thought we were friends." 
"Let's say we've managed to be of some use to each other, and let it go at that," said 
Rumfoord. 
Salo's head rocked gently in its gimbals. "I thought there'd been a little more to it than that," he 
said at last. 
"Let's say," said Rumfoord acidly, "that we discovered in each other a means to our separate 
ends." 
"I — I was glad to help you — and I hope I really was a help to you," said Salo. He opened his 
eyes. He had to see Rumfoord's reaction. Surely Rumfoord would become friendly again, for 
Salo really had helped him unselfishly. 
"Didn't I give you half my UWTB?" said Salo. "Didn't I let you copy my ship for Mars? Didn't 
I fly the first few recruiting missions? Didn't I help you figure out how to control the Martians, 
so they wouldn't make trouble? Didn't I spend day after day helping you to design the new 
religion?" 
"Yes," said Rumfoord. "But what have you done for me lately?" 
"What?" said Salo. 
"Never mind," said Rumfoord curtly. "It's the tag. line on an old Earthling joke, and not a very 
funny one, under the circumstances." 
"Oh," said Salo. He knew a lot of Earthling jokes, but he didn't know that one. 
"Your feet!" cried Rumfoord. 
"I'm sorry!" cried Salo. "If I could weep like an Earthling, I would!" His grieving feet were out 
of his control. They went on making the sounds Rumfoord suddenly hated so. "I'm sorry for 
everything! All I know is, I've tried every way I know how to be a true friend, and I never asked 
for anything in return." "You didn't have to!" said Rumfoord. "You didn't have to ask for a thing. All 
you had to do 
was sit back and wait for it to be dropped in your lap." 
"What was it I wanted dropped in my lap?" said Salo incredulously. 
"The replacement part for your space ship," said Rumfoord. "It's almost here. It's arriving, sire. 
Constant's boy has it — calls it his good-luck piece — as though you didn't know." 
Rumfoord sat up, turned green, motioned for silence. "Excuse me," he said. "I'm going to be 
sick again." 
Winston Niles Rumfoord and his dog Kazak were sick again — more violently sick than 
before. It seemed to poor old Salo that this time they would surely sizzle to nothing or explode. 
Kazak howled in a ball of Saint Elmo's fire. 
Rumfoord stood bolt upright, his eyes popping, a fiery column. 
This attack passed, too. 
"Excuse me," said Rumfoord with scathing decency. "You were saying — ?" 
"What?" said Salo bleakly. 
"You were saying something — or about to say something," said Rumfoord. Only the sweat at 
his temples betrayed the fact that he had just been through something harrowing. He put a 
cigarette in a long, bone cigarette holder, lighted it. He thrust out his jaw. The cigarette holder 
pointed straight up. "We won't be interrupted again for three minutes," he said. "You were 
saying?" 
Salo recalled the subject of conversation only with effort. When he did recall it, it upset him 
more than ever. The worst possible thing had happened. Not only had Rmnfoord found out, 
seemingly, about the influence of Tralfamadore on Earthling affairs, which would have offended 
him quite enough — but Rumfoord also regarded himself, seemingly, as one of the principal 
victims of that influence. 
Salo had had an uneasy suspicion from time to time that Rumfoord was under the influence of 
Tralfamadore, but he'd pushed the thought out of his mind, since there was nothing he could do 
about it. He hadn't even discussed it, because to discuss it with Rumfoord would surely have 
ruined their beautiful friendship at once. Very lamely, Salo explored the possibility that 
Rumfoord did not know as much as he seemed to know. "Skip — " he said. "Please!" said Rumfoord. "Mr. Rumfoord — " said Salo, "you think I somehow used you?" "Not you," said Rumfoord. "Your fellow machines back on your precious 
Tralfamadore." "Um," said Salo. "You — you think you — you've been used, Skip?" 
"Tralfamadore," said Rumfoord bitterly, "reached into the Solar System, picked me up, and 
used me like a handy-dandy potato peeler!" 
"If you could see this in the future," said Salo miserably, "why didn't you mention it before?" 
"Nobody likes to think he's being used," said Rumfoord. "He'll put off admitting it to himself 
until the last possible instant.", He smiled crookedly. "It may surprise you to- learn that I take a 
certain pride, no matter how foolishly mistaken that pride may be, in making my own decisions 
for my own reasons." "I'm not surprised," said Salo. 
"Oh?" said Rumfoord unpleasantly. "I should have thought it was too subtle an attitude for a 
machine to grasp." This, surely, was the low point in their relationship. Salo was a machine, since 
he had been 
designed and manufactured. He didn't conceal the fact. But Rumfoord had never used the fact as 
an insult before. He had definitely used the fact as an insult now. Through a thin veil of noblesse 
oblige, Rumfoord let Salo know that to be a machine was to be insensitive, was to be 
unimaginative, was to be vulgar, was to be purposeful without a shred of conscience. 
Salo was pathetically vulnerable to this accusation. It was a tribute to the spiritual intimacy he 
and Rumfoord had once shared that Rumfoord knew so well bow to hurt him. 
Salo closed two of his three eyes again, watched the soaring Titanic bluebirds again. The birds 
were as big as Earthling eagles. Salo wished he were a Titanic bluebird. 
The space ship carrying Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, and their son Chrono sailed 
low over the palace, landed on the shore of the Winston Sea. 
"I give you my word of honor," said Salo, "I didn't know you were being used, and I haven't 
the slightest idea what you — " "Machine," said Rumfoord nastily. 
"Tell me what you've been used for — please?" said Salo. "My word of honor — I don't have 
the foggiest — " "Machine!" said Rumfoord. 
"If you think so badly of me, Skip — Winston — Mr. Rumfoord — " said Salo, "after all I've 
done and tried to do in the name of friendship alone, there's certainly nothing I can say or do now 
to change your mind." 
"Precisely what a machine would say," said Rumfoord. "It's what a machine did say," said Salo humbly. He inflated his feet to the size 
of German 
batballs, preparing to walk out of Rumfoord's palace and onto the waters of the Winston Sea — 
never to return. Only when his feet were fully inflated did he catch the challenge in what 
Rumfoord had said. There was a clear implication that there was something Old Salo could still 
do to make things right again. 
Even if he was a machine, Salo was sensitive enough to know that to ask what that something 
was would be to grovel. He steeled himself. In the name of friendship, he was going to grovel. 
"Skip — " he said, "tell me what to do. Anything — anything at all." 
"In a very short time," said Rumfoord, "an explosion is going to blow the terminal of my spiral 
clear off the Sun, clear out of the Solar System." "No!" cried Salo. "Skip! Skip!" 
"No, no — no pity, please," said Rumfoord, stepping back, afraid of being touched. "It's a 
very good thing, really. I'll be seeing a lot of new things, a lot of new creatures." He tried to 
smile. "One gets tired, you know, being caught up in the monotonous clockwork of the Solar 
System." He laughed harshly. "After all," he said, "it isn't as though I were dying 
or something. 
Everything that ever was always will be, and everything that ever will be always was." He shook 
his head quickly, and cast away a tear he hadn't known was on his eyelid. 
"Comforting as that chrono-synclastic infundibulated thought is," he said, "I should still like to 
know just what the main point of this Solar System episode has been." "You — you've summed it up far better than anyone else could — in your 
Pocket History of Mars," said Salo. 
" The Pocket History of Mars," said Rumfoord, "makes no mention of the fact that I have been 
powerfully influenced by forces emanating from the planet Tralfamadore." He gritted his teeth. 
"Before my dog and I go crackling off through space like buggywhips in the hands of a 
lunatic," said Rumfoord, "I should very much like to know what the message you are carrying 
is." "I — I don't know," said Salo. "It's sealed. I have orders — " 
"Against all orders from Tralfamadore," said Winston Niles Rumfoord, "against all your 
instincts as a machine, but in the name of our friendship, Salo, I want you to open the message 
and read it to me now." 
Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, and young Chrono, their savage son, picnicked sulkily 
in the shade of a Titanic daisy by the Winston Sea. Each member of the family had a statue 
against which to lean. 
Bearded Malachi Constant, playboy of the Solar System, still wore his bright yellow suit with 
the orange question marks. It was the only suit he had. 
Constant leaned against a statue of St. Francis of Assisi. St. Francis was trying to befriend two 
hostile and terrifyingly huge birds, apparently bald eagles. Constant was unable to identify the 
birds properly as Titanic bluebirds, since he hadn't seen a Titanic bluebird yet. He had arrived on 
Titan only an hour before. 
Beatrice, looking like a gypsy queen, smoldered at the foot of a statue of a young physical 
student. At first glance, the laboratory-gowned scientist seemed to be a perfect servant of nothing 
but truth. At first glance, one was convinced that nothing but truth could please him as he 
beamed at his test tube. At first glance, one thought that he was as much above the beastly 
concerns of mankind as the harmoniums in the caves of Mercury. There, at first glance, was a 
young man without vanity, without lust — and one accepted at its face value the 
title Salo had 
engraved on the statue, Discovery of Atomic Power. 
And then one perceived that the young truth-seeker had a shocking erection. 
Beatrice hadn't perceived this yet. 
Young Chrono, dark and dangerous like his mother, was already committing his first act of 
vandalism — or was trying to. Chrono was trying to inscribe a dirty Earthling word on the base 
of the statue against which he had been leaning. He was attempting the job with a sharp corner of 
his good luck piece. 
The seasoned Titanic peat, almost as hard as diamonds, did the cutting instead, rounding off 
the corner's point. 
The statue on which Chrono was working was of a family group — a Neanderthal man, his 
mate, and their baby. It was a deeply-moving piece. The squat, shaggy, hopeful creatures were so 
ugly they were beautiful. 
Their importance and universality was not spoiled by the satiric title Salo had given the piece. 
He gave frightful titles to all his statues, as though to proclaim desperately that he did not take 
himself seriously as an artist, not for an instant. The title he gave to the Neanderthal family 
derived from the fact that the baby was being shown a human foot roasting on a crude spit. 
The title was This Little Pigg y. "No matter what happens, no matter what beautiful or sad or happy or 
frightening thing 
happens," Malachi Constant told his family there on Titan, "I'm damned if I'll respond. The 
minute it looks like something or somebody wants me to act in some special way, I will freeze." 
He glanced up at the rings of Saturn, curled his lip. "Isn't that just too beautiful for words?" He 
spat on the ground. 
"If anybody ever expects to use me again in some tremendous scheme of his," said Constant, 
"be is in for one big disappointment. He will be a lot better off trying to get a rise out of one of 
these statues." He spat again. 
"As far as I'm concerned," said Constant, "the Universe is a junk yard, with everything in it 
overpriced. I am through poking around in the junk heaps, looking for bargains. Every so-called 
bargain," said Constant, "has been connected by fine wires to a dynamite bouquet." He spat 
again. "I resign," said Constant. 
"I withdraw," said Constant. "I quit," said Constant. 
Constant's little family agreed without enthusiasm. Constant's brave speech was stale stuff. He 
had delivered it many times during the seventeen-month voyage from Earth to Titan — and it 
was, after all, a routine philosophy for all Martian veterans. 
Constant wasn't really speaking to his family anyway. He was speaking loudly, so his voice 
would carry some distance into the forest of statuary and over the Winston Sea. He was making a 
policy statement for the benefit of Rumfoord or anybody else who might be lurking near by. 
"We have taken part for the last time," said Constant loudly, "in experiments and fights and 
festivals we don't like or understand!" 
"' Understand — '" came an echo from the wall of a palace on an island two- hundred yards 
offshore. The palace was, of course, Dun Roamin, Rumfoord's Taj Mahal. Constant wasn't 
surprised to see the palace out there. He had seen it when he disembarked from his space ship, 
had seen it shining out there like St. Augustine's City of God. "What happens next?" Constant asked the echo. "All the statues come to life?" "' Life!" said the echo. 
"It's an echo," said Beatrice. "I know it's an echo," said Constant. 
"I didn't know if you knew it was an echo or not," said Beatrice She was distant and polite. 
She had been extremely decent to Constant, blaming him for nothing, expecting nothing from 
him. A less aristocratic woman might have put him through hell, blam. ing him for everything 
and demanding miracles. 
There had been no love-making during the voyage. Neither Constant nor Beatrice had been 
interested. Martian veterans never were. 
Inevitably, the long voyage had drawn Constant closer to his mate and child — closer than 
they had been on the gilded system of catwalks, ramps, ladders, pulpits, steps and stages in 
Newport. But the only love in the family unit was still the love between young Chrono and 
Beatrice. Other than the love between mother and son there was only politeness, glum 
compassion, and suppressed indignation at having been forced to be a family at all. 
"Oh, my — " said Constant, "life is funny when you stop to think of it." Young Chrono did not smile when his father said life was funny. 
Young Chrono was the member of the family least in a position to think life was funny. 
Beatrice and Constant, after all, could laugh bitterly at the wild incidents they had survived. But 
young Chrono couldn't laugh with them, because he himself was a wild incident. 
Small wonder that young Chrono's chief treasures were a good-luck piece and a switchblade 
knife. 
Young Chrono now drew his switchblade knife, flicked open the blade nonchalantly. His eyes 
narrowed. He was preparing to kill, if killing should become necessary. He was looking in the 
direction of a gilded rowboat that had put out from the palace on the island. 
It was being rowed by a tangerine-colored creature. The oarsman was, of course, Salo. He was 
bringing the boat in order to transport the family back to the palace. Salo was a bad oarsman, 
never having rowed before. He grasped the oars with his suction-cup feet. 
He had one advantage over human oarsmen, in that be had an eye in the back of his head. 
Young Chrono flashed light into Old Salo's eye, flashed it with his bright knife blade. 
Salo's back eye blinked. 
Flashing the light into the eye was not a piece of skylarking on Chrono's part. It was a piece of 
jungle cunning, a piece of cunning calculated to make almost any sort of sighted creature uneasy. 
It was one of a thousand pieces of jungle cunning that young Chrono and his 
mother had learned in their year together in the Amazon Rain Forest. 
Beatrice's brown hand closed on a rock. "Worry him again," she said softly to Chrono. 
Young Chrono again flashed the light in Old Salo's eye. 
"His body looks like the only soft part," said Beatrice, without moving her lips. "If you can't 
get his body, try for an eye." Chrono nodded. 
Constant was chilled, seeing what an efficient unit of self-defense his mate and son made 
together. Constant was not included in their plans. They had no need of him. 
"What should I do?" whispered Constant. 
"Sh!" said Beatrice sharply. 
Salo beached his gilded craft. He made it fast with a clumsy landlubber's knot to the wrist of a 
statue by the water. The statue was of a nude woman playing a slide trombone. It was entitled, 
enigmatically, Evelyn and Her Magic Violin. Salo was too jangled by sorrow to care for his own safety — to understand, 
even, that he 
might be frightening to someone. He stood for a moment on a block of seasoned Titanic peat 
near his landing. His grieving feet sucked at the damp stone. He pried loose his feet with a 
tremendous effort. 
On he came, the flashes from Chrono's knife dazzling him. 
"Please — " he said. 
A rock flew out of the knife's dazzle. 
Salo ducked. 
A hand siezed his bony throat, threw him down. 
Young Chrono now stood astride Old Salo, his knife point pricking Salo's chest. Beatrice knelt 
by Salo's head, a rock poised to smash his head to bits. 
"Go on — kill me," said Salo raspingly. "You'd be doing me a favor. I wish I were dead. I 
wish to God I'd never been assembled and started up in the first place. Kill me, put me out of my 
misery, and then go see him. He's asking for you." 
"Who is?" said Beatrice. 
"Your poor husband — my former friend, Winston Niles Rumfoord," said Salo. 
"Where is he?" said Beatrice. 
"In that palace on the island," said Salo. "He's dying — all alone, except for his faithful dog. 
He's asking for you — " said Salo, "asking for all of you. And he says he never wants to lay his 
eyes on me again." 
Malachi Constant watched the lead-colored lips kiss thin air soundlessly. The tongue behind 
the lips clicked infinitesimally. The lips suddenly drew back, baring the perfect teeth of Winston 
Niles Rumfoord. 
Constant was himself showing his teeth, preparing to gnash them appropriately at the sight of 
this man who had done him so much harm. He did not gnash them. For one thing, no one was 
looking — no one would see him do it and understand. For another thing, Constant found 
himself destitute of hate. 
His preparations for gnashing his teeth decayed into a yokel gape — the gape of a yokel in the 
presence of a spectacularly mortal disease. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord was lying, fully materialized, on his back on his lavender contour 
chair by the pool. His eyes were directed at the sky, unblinkingly and seemingly sightless. One 
fine hand dangled over the side of the chair, its limp fingers laced in the choke chain of Kazak, 
the hound of space. The chain was empty. 
An explosion on the Sun had separated man and dog. A Universe schemed in mercy would 
have kept man and dog together. 
The Universe inhabited by Winston Niles Rumfoord and his dog was not schemed in mercy. 
Kazak had been sent ahead of his master on the great mission to nowhere and nothing. 
Kazak had left howling in a puff of ozone and sick light, in a hum like swarming bees. 
Rumfoord let the empty choke chain slip from his fingers. The chain expressed deadness, 
made a formless sound and a formless heap, was a soulless slave of gravity, born with a broken 
spine. 
Rumfoord's lead-colored lips moved. "Hello, Beatrice — wife," he said sepulchrally. 
"Hello, Space Wanderer," he said. He made his voice affectionate this time. "Gallant of you to 
come, Space Wanderer — to take one more chance with me. 
"Hello, illustrious young bearer of the illustrious name of Chrono," said Rumfoord. "Hail, oh 
German batball star — hail, him of the good-luck piece." 
The three to whom he spoke stood just inside the wall. The pool was between them and 
Rumfoord. 
Old Salo, who had not been granted his wish to die, grieved in the stern of the gilded rowboat 
that was beached outside the wail. 
"I am not dying," said Rumfoord. "I am merely taking my leave of the Solar System. And I am 
not even doing that. In the grand, in the timeless, in the chrono-synclastic 
infundibulated way of looking at things, I shall always be here. I shall always be wherever I've been. 
"I'm honeymooning with you still, Beatrice," he said. "I'm talking to you still in a little room 
under the stairway in Newport, Mr. Constant. Yes — and playing peek-a-boo in the caves of 
Mercury with you and Boaz. And Chrono — " he said, "I'm watching you still as you play 
German batball so well on the iron playground of Mars." 
He groaned. It was a tiny groan — and so sad. 
The sweet, mild air of Titan carried the tiny groan away. 
"Whatever we've said, friends, we're saying still — such as it was, such as it is, such as it will 
be," said Rumfoord. The tiny groan came again. Rumfoord watched it leave as though it were a smoke ring. 
"There is something you should know about life in the Solar System," he said. "Being chronosynclastic infundibulated, I've known about it all along. It is, none the less, such a sickening 
thing that I've thought about it as little as possible. "The sickening thing is this: 
" Everything that every Earthling has ever done has been warped by creatures on a planet one- 
hundred-and-fifty thousand light years awa y. The name of the planet is Tralfamadore. 
"How the Tralfamadorians controlled us, I don't know. But I know to what end they controlled 
us. They controlled us in such a way as to make us deliver a replacement part to a 
Tralfamadorian messenger who was grounded right here on Titan." Rumfoord pointed a finger at young Chrono. "You, young man — " he said. 
"You have it in 
your pocket. In your pocket is the culmination of all Earthling history. In your pocket is the 
mysterious something that every Earthling was trying so desperately, so earnestly, so gropingly, 
so exhaustingly to produce and deliver." A fizzing twig of electricity grew from the tip of Rumfoord's accusing finger. 
"The thing you call your good-luck piece," said Rumfoord, "is the replacement part for which 
the Tralfamadorian messenger has been waiting so long! 
"The messenger," said Rumfoord, "is the tangerine-colored creature who now cowers outside 
the walls. His name is Salo. I had hoped that the messenger would' give mankind a glimpse of 
the message he was carrying, since mankind was giving him such a nice boost on his way. 
Unfortunately, he is under orders to show the message to no one. He is a machine, and, as a 
machine, he has no choice but to regard orders as orders. "I asked him politely to show me the message," said Rumfoord. "He desperately 
refused." 
The fizzing twig of electricity on Rumfoord's finger grew, forming a spiral around Rumfoord. 
Rumfoord considered the spiral with sad contempt. "I think perhaps this is it," he said of the 
spiral. 
It was indeed. The spiral telescoped slightly, making a curtsey. And then it began to revolve 
around Rumfoord, spinning a continuous cocoon of green light. It barely whispered as it spun. 
"All I can say," said Rumfoord from the cocoon, "is that I have tried my best to do good for 
my native Earth while serving the irresistible wishes of Tralfamadore. 
"Perhaps, now that the part has been delivered to the Tralfamadorian messenger, Tralfamadore 
will leave the Solar System alone. Perhaps Earthlings will now be free to develop and follow 
their own inclinations, as they have not been free to do for thousands of years." He sneezed. "The 
wonder is that Earthlings have been able to make as much sense as they have," he said. 
The green cocoon left the ground, hovered over the dome. "Remember me as a gentleman of 
Newport, Earth, and the Solar System," said Rumfoord. He sounded serene again, at peace with 
himself, and at least equal to any creature that he might encounter anywhere. 
"In a punctual way of speaking," came Rumfoord's glottal tenor from the cocoon, "good-by." 
The cocoon and Rumfoord disappeared with a pft. Rumfoord and his dog were never seen again. 
Old Salo came bounding into the courtyard just as Rumfoord and his cocoon disappeared. 
The little Tralfamadorian was wild. He had torn the message from its band around his throat 
with a suction-cup foot. One foot was still a suction cup, and in it was the message. 
He looked up at the place where the cocoon had hovered. "Skip!" he cried into the sky. "Skip! 
The message! I'll tell you the message! The message! Skiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiip!" His head did a somersault in its gimbals. "Gone," he said emptily. He whispered, 
"Gone. 
"Machine?" said Salo. He was speaking haltingly, as much to himself as to Constant, Beatrice 
and Chrono. "A machine I am, and so are my people," he said. "I was designed and 
manufactured, and no expense, no skill, was spared in making me dependable, efficient, 
predictable, and durable. I was the best machine my people could make. "How good a machine have I proved to be?" asked Salo. 
"Dependable?" he said. "I was depended upon to keep my message sealed until I reached my 
destination, and now I've torn it open. 
"Efficient?" he said. "Having lost my best friend in the Universe, it now costs me more energy 
to step over a dead leaf than it once cost me to bound over Mount Rumfoord. 
"Predictable?" he said. "After watching human beings for two hundred thousand Earthling 
years, I have become as skittish and sentimental as the silliest Earthling schoolgirl. 
"Durable?" he said darkly. "We shall see what we shall see." He laid the message he had been carrying so long on Rumfoord's empty, 
lavender contour chair. 
"There it is — friend," he said to his memory of Rumfoord, "and much consolation may it give 
you, Skip. Much pain it cost your old friend Salo. In order to give it to you — even too late — 
your old friend Salo had to make war against the core of his being, against the very nature of 
being a machine. "You asked the impossible of a machine," said Salo, "and the machine complied. 
"The machine is no longer a machine," said Salo. "The machine's contacts are corroded, his 
bearings fouled, his circuits shorted, and his gears stripped. His mind buzzes and pops like the 
mind of an Earthling — fizzes and overheats with thoughts of love, honor, dignity, rights, 
accomplishment, integrity, independence — " 
Old Salo picked up the message again from Rumfoord's contour chair. It was written on a thin 
square of aluminum. The message was a single dot. 
"Would you like to know how I have been used, how my life has been wasted?" he said. 
"Would you like to know what the message is that I have been carrying for almost half a million 
Earthling years — the message I am supposed to carry for eighteen million more years?" 
He held out the square of aluminum in a cupped foot. "A dot," he said. "A single dot," he said. "The meaning of a dot in Tralfamadorian," said Old Salo, "is — "Greetings." 
The little machine from Tralfamadore, having delivered this message to himself, to Constant, 
to Beatrice, and to Chrono over a distance of one hundred and fifty thousand light years, 
bounded abruptly out of the courtyard and onto the beach outside. 
He killed himself out there. He took himself apart and threw his parts in all directions. 
Chrono went out on the beach alone, wandered thoughtfully among Salo's parts. Chrono had 
always known that his good-luck piece had extraordinary powers and extraordinary meanings. 
And he had always suspected that some superior creature would eventually come to claim the 
good-luck piece as his own. It was in the nature of truly effective good-luck pieces that human 
beings never really owned them. 
They simply took care of them, had the benefit of them, until the real owners, the superior 
owners, came along. 
Chrono did not have a sense of futility and disorder. 
Everything seemed in apple-pie order to him. 
And the boy himself participated fitly in that perfect order. 
He took his good-luck piece from his pocket, dropped it without regret to the sand, dropped it 
among Salo's scattered parts. 
Sooner or later, Chrono believed, the magical forces of the Universe would put everything 
back together again. They always did. 
EPILOGUE REUNION WITH STONY 
"You are tired, so very tired, Space Wanderer, Malachi, Unk. Stare at the faintest star, Earthling, and think how heavy your limbs are growing." — SALO 
There isn't much more to tell. 
Malachi Constant grew to be an old man on Titan. Beatrice Rumfoord grew to be an old 
woman on Titan. 
They died peacefully, died within twenty-four hours of each other. They died in their seventyfourth years. 
Only the Titanic bluebirds know for sure what happened, finally, to Chrono, their son. 
When Malachi Constant turned seventy-four years old, he was crusty, sweet, and bandylegged. He was totally bald, and went naked most of the time, wearing nothing but a neatlytrimmed, white vandyke beard. 
He lived in Salo's grounded space ship, had been living there for thirty years. 
Constant had not tried to fly the space ship. He hadn't dared to touch a single control. The 
controls of Salo's ship were far more complex than those of a Martian ship. Salo's dash panel 
offered Constant two hundred and seventy-three knobs, switches, and buttons, each with a 
Tralfamadorian inscription or calibration. The controls were anything but a hunchplayer's delight 
in a Universe composed of one-trillionth part matter to one decillion parts black velvet futility. 
Constant had tinkered with the ship only to the extent of finding out gingerly if, as Rumfoord 
had said, Chrono's good-luck piece really would serve as a part of the power plant. 
Superficially, at any rate, the good-luck piece would. There was an access door to the ship's 
power plant that had plainly leaked smoke at one time. Constant opened it, found a sooty 
compartment within. And under the soot were smudged bearings and cams that related to 
nothing. 
Constant was able to slip the holes in Chrono's good-luck piece onto those bearings and 
between the cams. The good-luck piece conformed to close tolerances and surrounding 
clearances in a way that would have pleased a Swiss machinist. 
Constant had many hobbies that helped him to pass the balmy time in the salubrious clime of 
Titan. 
His most interesting hobby was puttering around with Salo, the dismantled Tralfamadorian 
messenger. Constant spent thousands of hours trying to get Salo back together 
and going again. So far, he had had no luck. 
When Constant first undertook the reconstruction of the little Tralfamadorian, it had been with 
the express hope that Salo would then agree to fly young Chrono back to Earth. 
Constant wasn't eager to fly back to Earth, and neither was his mate Beatrice. But Constant 
and Beatrice had agreed that their son, with most of his life ahead of him, should live that life 
with busy and jolly contemporaries on Earth. 
By the time Constant was seventy-four, however, getting young Chrono back to Earth was no 
longer a pressing problem. Young Chrono was no longer particularly young. He was forty-two. 
And he had made such a thorough and specialized adjustment on Titan that it would have been 
cruel in the extreme to send him anywhere else. 
At the age of seventeen, young Chrono had run away from his palatial home to join the Titanic 
bluebirds, the most admirable creatures on Titan. Chrono now lived among their nests by the 
Kazak pools. He wore their feathers and sat on their eggs and shared their food and spoke their 
language. 
Constant never saw Chrono. Sometimes, late at night, he would hear Chrono's cries. Constant 
did not answer the cries. The cries were for nothing and nobody on Titan. They were for Phoebe, a passing moon. 
Sometimes, when Constant was out gathering Titanic strawberries or the speckled, two-pound 
eggs of the Titanic plover, he would come upon a little shrine made of sticks and stones in a 
clearing. Chrono made hundreds of these shrines. 
The elements in the shrines were always the same One large stone was at the center, 
representing Saturn. A wooden hoop made of a green twig was placed around it — to represent 
Saturn's rings. And beyond the rings were small stones to represent the nine moons, The largest 
of these satellite stones was Titan. And there was always the feather of a Titanic bluebird under 
it. 
The marks on the ground made it clear that young Chrono, no longer so young, spent hours 
moving the elements of the system about. 
When old Malachi Constant found one of his strange son's shrines in a state of neglect, he 
would tidy it up as best he could. Constant would weed it and rake it, and make a new twig ring 
for the stone that was Saturn. He would put a fresh bluebird feather under the stone that was 
Titan. 
Tidying up the shrines was as close, spiritually, as Constant could get to his son. He respected what his son was trying to do with religion. 
And sometimes, when Constant gazed at a refurbished shrine, he moved the elements of his 
own life about experimentally — but he did it in his head. At such times he was likely to reflect 
in melancholy on two things in particular — his murder of Stony Stevenson, his best and only 
friend, and his winning, so late in life, the love of Beatrice Rumfoord. 
Constant never found out whether Chrono knew who tidied up the shrines. Chrono may have 
thought his god or gods were doing it. It was all so sad. But it was all so beautiful, too. 
Beatrice Rumfoord lived alone in Rumfoord's Taj Mahal. Her contacts with Chrono were far 
more harrowing than Constant's. At unpredictable intervals, Chrono would swim out to the 
palace, dress himself from Rumfoord's wardrobe, announce that it was his mother's birthday, and 
spend the day in indolent, sullen, reasonably civilized discourse. 
At the end of such a day, Chrono would rage at the clothes and his mother and civilization. He 
would tear off the clothes, scream like a bluebird, and dive into the Winston Sea. 
When Beatrice had suffered through one of these birthday parties, she would thrust an oar into 
the sand of the beach that faced the nearest shore, and she would fly a white sheet from it. 
It was a signal for Malachi Constant, begging him please to come at once, to help her calm 
down. 
And when Constant arrived in response to the signal of distress, Beatrice always comforted 
herself with the same words. 
"At least," she would say, "he isn't a mama's boy. And at least he had the greatness of soul to 
join the noblest, most beautiful creatures in sight." The white sheet, the signal of distress, was flying now. 
Malachi Constant put out from shore in a dugout canoe. The gilded rowboat that had come 
with the palace had long since been sunk by dry rot. 
Constant was wearing an old blue wool bathrobe that had once belonged to Rumfoord. He had 
found it in the palace, had taken it when his Space Wanderer's suit wore out. It was his only 
garment, and he wore it only when he went calling on Beatrice. 
Constant had in the dugout canoe with him six plovers' eggs, two quarts of wild Titanic 
strawberries, a three-gallon peat crock of fermented daisy milk, a bushel of daisy seeds, eight 
books he had borrowed from the forty-thousand-volume library in the palace, and a home-made 
broom and a home-made shovel. 
Constant was self-sufficient. He raised or gathered or made everything he needed. This 
satisfied him enormously. 
Beatrice was not dependent on Constant. Rumfoord had stocked the Taj Mahal lavishly with 
Earthling food and Earthling liquor. Beatrice had plenty to eat and drink, and always would have. 
Constant was bringing native foods to Beatrice because he was so proud of his skills as a 
woodsman and husbandman. He liked to show off his skills as a provider. It was a compulsion. 
Constant had his broom and shovel along in the dugout canoe because Beatrice's palace was 
always a broom-and-shovel mess. Beatrice did no cleaning, so Constant got rid of the worst of 
the refuse whenever he paid her a visit. 
Beatrice Rumfoord was a springy, one-eyed, goldtoothed, brown old lady — as lean and tough 
as a chair slat. But the class of the damaged and roughly-used old lady showed through. 
To anyone with a sense of poetry, mortality, and wonder, Malachi Constant's proud, highcheekboned mate was as handsome as a human being could be. 
She was probably a little crazy. On a moon with only two other people on it, she was writing a 
book called The True Purpose of Life in the Solar System. It was a refutation of 
Rumfoord's 
notion that the purpose of human life in the Solar System was to get a grounded messenger from 
Tralfamadore on his way again. 
Beatrice began the book after her son left her to join the bluebirds. The manuscript so far, 
written in longhand, occupied thirty-eight cubic feet inside the Taj Mahal. 
Every time Constant visited her, she read aloud her latest additions to the manuscript. 
She was reading out loud now, sitting in Rumfoord's old contour chair while Constant puttered 
about the courtyard. She was wearing a pink and white chenille bedspread that had come with 
the palace. Worked into the tufts of the bedspread was the message, God does not care. 
It had been Rumfoord's own personal bedspread. 
On and on Beatrice read, spinning arguments against the importance of the forces of 
Tralfamadore. 
Constant did not listen attentively. He simply enjoyed Beatrice's voice, which was strong and 
triumphant. He was down in a manhole by the pool, turning a valve that would drain the water 
out. The water of the pool had been turned into something like cream of pea soup by Titanic 
algae. Every time Constant visited Beatrice he fought a losing battle against the 
prolific green murk. 
"'I would be the last to deny,'" said Beatrice, reading her own work out loud, "'that the forces 
of Tralfamadore have had something to do with the affairs of Earth. However, those persons who 
have served the interests of Tralfamadore have served them in such highly personalized ways 
that Tralfamadore can be said to have had practically nothing to do with the case.'" 
Constant, down in the manhole, put his ear to the valve be had opened. From the sound of it, 
the water was draining slowly. 
Constant swore. One of the vital pieces of information that had disappeared with Rumfoord 
and died with Salo was how they had managed, in their time, to keep the pool so crystal clean. 
Ever since Constant had taken over maintenance of the pool, the algae had been building up. The 
pool's bottoms and sides were lined with a blanket of viscid slime, and the three statues in the 
middle, the three Sirens of Titan, were under a mucilaginous hump. 
Constant knew of the significance of the three sirens in his life. He had read about it — both in 
the Pocket History of Mars and The Winston Niles Rumfoord Authorized Revised Bible. The 
three great beauties didn't mean so much to him now, really, except to remind him that sex had 
once bothered him. 
Constant climbed out of the manhole. "Drains slower every time," he said to Beatrice. "I don't 
guess I can put off digging up the pipes much longer." "That so?" said Beatrice, looking up from her writing. "That's so," said Constant. "Well — you do whatever needs to be done," said Beatrice. "That's the story of my life," said Constant. 
"I just had an idea that ought to go in the book," said Beatrice, "if I can just keep it from 
getting away." "I'll hit it with a shovel, if it comes this way," said Constant. 
"Don't say anything for a minute," said Beatrice. "Just let me get it straight in my head." She 
stood, and went into the entry of the palace to escape the distractions of Constant and the rings of 
Saturn. 
She looked long at a large oil painting hanging on the entry wall. It was the only painting in 
the palace. Constant had had it brought all the way from Newport. 
It was a painting of an immaculate little girl in white, holding the reins of a white pony all her 
own. 
Beatrice knew who the little girl was. The painting was labeled with a brass plate that said, 
Beatrice Rumfoord as a Young Girl. It was quite a contrast — between the little girl in white and the old lady looking 
at her. 
Beatrice suddenly turned her back on the painting, walked out into the courtyard again. The 
idea she wanted to add to her book was straight in her mind now. 
"The worst thing that could possibly happen to anybody," she said, "would be to not be used 
for anything by anybody." 
The thought relaxed her. She lay-down on Rumfoord's old contour chair, looked up at the 
appallingly beautiful rings of Saturn — at Rumfoord's Rainbow. 
"Thank you for using me," she said to Constant, "even though I didn't want to be used by 
anybody." "You're welcome," said Constant. 
He began to sweep the courtyard. The litter he was sweeping was a mixture of sand, which 
had blown in from the outside, daisy-seed hulls, Earthling peanut hulls, empty cans of boned 
chicken, and discarded wads of manuscript paper. Beatrice subsisted mostly on daisy seeds, 
peanuts, and boned chicken because she didn't have to cook them, because she didn't even have 
to interrupt her writing in order to eat them. 
She could eat with one hand and write with the other — and, more than anything else in life, 
she wanted to get everything written down. With his sweeping half done, Constant paused to see how the pool was draining. 
It was draining slowly. The slimy green hump that covered the three Sirens of Titan was just 
breaking the descending surface. 
Constant leaned over the open manhole, listened to the water sounds. 
He heard the music of the pipes. And he heard something else, too. 
He heard the absence of a familiar and a beloved sound. 
His mate Beatrice wasn't breathing any more. 
Malachi Constant buried his mate in Titanic peat on the shore of the Winston Sea. She was 
buried where there were no statues. 
Malachi Constant said good-by to her when the sky was filled with Titanic bluebirds. There 
must have been ten thousand, at least, of the great and noble birds. They made night of day, made the air quake with their beating wings. Not one bird cried out. 
And in that night in the midst of day, Chrono, the son of Beatrice and Malachi, appeared on a 
knoll overlooking the new grave. He wore a feather cape which he flapped like wings. 
He was gorgeous and strong. 
"Thank you, Mother and Father," he shouted, "for the gift of life. Good-by!" 
He was gone, and the birds went with him. 
Old Malachi Constant went back to the palace with a heart as heavy as a cannonball. What 
drew him back to that sad place was a wish to leave it in good order. Sooner or later, someone else would come. 
The palace should be neat and clean and ready for them. The palace should speak well of the 
former tenant. 
Around Rumfoord's worn contour chair were the plovers' eggs and wild Titanic strawberries, 
and the crock of fermented daisy milk and the basket of daisy seeds that Constant had given to 
Beatrice. They were perishables. They would not last until the next tenant came. These Constant put back in his dugout canoe. 
He didn't need them. Nobody needed them. As he straightened up his old back from the canoe, 
he saw Salo, the little messenger from Tralfamadore, walking across the water toward him. 
"How do you do," said Constant. "How do you do," said Salo. "Thank you for putting me back together again." 
"I didn't think I did it right," said Constant. "I couldn't get a peep out of you." 
"You did it right," said Salo. "I just couldn't make up my mind whether or not I wanted to 
peep." He let the air out of his feet with a hiss, "I guess I'll be moseying along," he said. 
"You're going to deliver your message after all?" said Constant. 
"Anybody who has traveled this far on a fool's errand," said Salo, "has no choice but to uphold 
the honor of fools by completing the errand." "My mate died today," said Constant. 
"Sorry," said Salo. "I would say, 'Is there anything I can do?' — but Skip once told me that 
that was the most hateful and stupid expression in the English language." 
Constant rubbed his hands together. The only company he had left on Titan was whatever 
company his right hand could be for his left. "I miss her," he said. "You finally fell in love, I see," said Salo. 
"Only an Earthling year ago," said Constant. "It took us that long to realize that a purpose of 
human life, no matter who is controlling it, is to love whoever is around to be loved." 
"If you or your son would like a ride back to Earth," said Salo, "it wouldn't be much out of my 
way." "My boy joined the bluebirds," said Constant. 
"Good for him!" said Salo. "I'd join them, if they'd have me." "Earth," said Constant wonderingly. 
"We could be there in a matter of hours," said Salo, "now that the ship's running right again." 
"It's lonely here," said Constant, "now that — " He shook his head. 
On the trip back to Earth, Salo suspected that he had made a tragic mistake in suggesting to 
constant that he return to Earth. He had begun to suspect this when Constant insisted on being 
taken to Indianapolis, Indiana, U.S.A. 
This insistence of Constant's was a dismaying development, since Indianapolis was far from 
an ideal place for a homeless old man. 
Salo wanted to let him off by a shuffleboard court in St. Petersburg, Florida, U.S.A., but 
Constant, after the fashion of old men, could not be shaken from his first decision. He wanted to 
go to Indianapolis, and that was that. 
Salo assumed that Constant had relatives or possibly old business connections in Indianapolis, 
but this turned out not to be the case. 
"I don't know anybody in Indianapolis, and I don't know anything about Indianapolis except 
for one thing," said Constant, "a thing I read in a book," "What did you read in a book?" said Salo uneasily. 
"Indianapolis, Indiana," said Constant, "is the first place in the United States of America 
where a white man was hanged for the murder of. an Indian. The kind of people who'll hang a 
white man for murdering an Indian — " said Constant, "that's the kind of people for me." 
Salo's head did a somersault in its gimbals. His feet made grieved sucking sounds on the iron 
floor. His passenger, obviously, knew almost nothing about the planet toward which he was 
being carried with a speed approaching that of light. At least Constant had money. 
There was hope in that. He had close to three thousand dollars in various Earthling currencies, 
taken from the pockets of Rumfoord's suits in the Taj Mahal. And at least he had clothes. 
He had on a terribly baggy but good tweed suit of Rumfoord's, complete with a Phi Beta 
Kappa key that hung from the watch chain that spanned the front of the vest. 
Salo had made Constant take the key along with the suit. 
Constant had a good overcoat, a hat, and overshoes, too. 
With Earth only an hour away, Salo wondered what else he could do to make the remainder of 
Constant's life supportable, even in Indianapolis. And he decided to hypnotize Constant, in order that the last few seconds of 
Constant's life, at least, would please the old man tremendously. Constant's life would end well. 
Constant was already in a nearly hypnotic state, staring out at the Cosmos through a porthole. 
Salo came up behind him and spoke to him soothingly. 
"You are tired, so very tired, Space Wanderer, Malachi, Unk," said Salo. "Stare at the faintest 
star, Earthling, and think how heavy your limbs are growing." 
"Heavy," said Constant. 
"You are going to die some day, Unk," said Salo. "Sorry, but it's true." 
"True," said Constant. "Don't be sorry." 
"When you know you are dying, Space Wanderer," said Salo hypnotically, "a wonderful thing 
will happen to you." He then described to Constant the happy things that Constant would 
imagine before his life flickered out. 
It would be a post-hypnotic illusion. 
"Awake!" said Salo. 
Constant shuddered, turned away from the porthole. "Where am I?" he said. 
"On a Tralfamadorian space ship out of Titan, bound for Earth," said Salo. 
"Oh," said Constant. "Of course," he said a moment later. "I must have been asleep." 
"Take a nap," said Salo. 
"Yes — I — I think I will," said Constant. He lay down on a bunk. He dropped off to sleep. 
Salo strapped the sleeping Space Wanderer to his bunk. Then he strapped himself to his seat at 
the controls. He set three dials, double-checked the reading on each. He pressed a bright red 
button. He sat back. There was nothing more to do now. 
From now on everything was automatic. In thirty-six minutes, the ship would land itself near 
the end of a bus line on the outskirts of Indianapolis, Indiana, U.S.A., Earth, Solar System, Milky 
Way. 
It would be three in the morning there. 
It would also be winter. 
The space ship landed in four inches of fresh snow in a vacant lot on the south side of 
Indianapolis. No one was awake to see it land. 
Malachi Constant got out of the space ship. "That's your bus stop over there, old soldier," 
whispered Salo. It was necessary to whisper, for a two-story frame house with an open bedroom 
window was only thirty feet away. Salo pointed to a snowy bench by the street. "You'll have to 
wait about ten minutes," he whispered. "The bus will take you right into the center of town. Ask 
the driver to let you off near a good hotel." 
Constant nodded. "I'll be all right," he whispered. "How do you feel?" whispered Salo. "Warm 
as toast," whispered Constant. The complaint of a vaguely disturbed sleeper came from the open 
bedroom window near by. "Aw, somebody," the sleeper complained, " afo wa, de-yah, 
ummmmmmmmmmmm." 
"You really all right?" whispered Salo. 
"Yes. Fine," whispered Constant. "Warm as toast." 
"Good luck," whispered Salo. 
"We don't say that down here," whispered Constant. 
Salo winked. "I'm not from down here," he whispered. He looked around at the perfectly white 
world, felt the wet kisses of the snowflakes, pondered hidden meanings in the pale yellow 
streetlights that shone in a world so whitely asleep. "Beautiful," he whispered. "Isn't it?" whispered Constant. 
" Sim-faw!" cried the sleeper menacingly, to anyone who might menace his sleep. "Soo! A-so! 
What's a mabba? Nf." "You better go," whispered Constant. "Yes," whispered Salo. "Good-by," whispered Constant, "and thanks." 
"You're entirely welcome," whispered Salo. He backed into the ship, closed the airlock. The 
ship arose with the sound of a man blowing over the mouth of a bottle. It disappeared into the 
swirling snow and was gone. "Toodle-oo," it said. 
Malachi Constant's feet squeaked in the snow as he walked to the bench. He brushed aside the 
snow on the bench and sat down. 
" Fraugh!" cried the sleeper, as though he suddenly understood all. 
"Braugh!" he cried, not liking at all what he suddenly understood. 
"Sup-foe!" he said, saying in no uncertain terms what he was going to do about it. 
"Floof!" he cried. 
The conspirators presumably fled. 
More snow fell. 
The bus Malachi Constant was waiting for ran two hours late that morning — on, account of 
the snow. When the bus did come it was too late. Malachi Constant was dead. 
Salo had hypnotized him so that he would imagine, as he died, that he saw his best and only 
friend, Stony Stevenson. 
As the snow drifted over Constant, he imagined that the clouds opened up, letting through a 
sunbeam, a sunbeam all for him. 
A golden space ship encrusted with diamonds came skimming down the sunbeam, landed in 
the untouched snow of the street. 
Out stepped a stocky, red-headed man with a big cigar. He was young. He wore the uniform of 
the Martian Assault Infantry, Unk's old outfit. 
"Hello, Unk," he said. "Get in." 
"Get in?" said Constant. "Who are you?" 
"Stony Stevenson, Unk. You don't recognize me?" 
"Stony?" said Constant. "That's you, Stony?" 
"Who else could stand the bloody pace?" said Stony. He laughed. "Get in," he said. 
"And go where?" said Constant. "Paradise," said Stony. 
"What's Paradise like?" said Constant. "Everybody's happy there forever," said Stony, "or as 
long as the bloody Universe holds together. Get in, Unk. Beatrice is already there, waiting for 
you." "Beatrice?" said Unk, getting into the space ship. Stony closed the airlocks, 
pressed the on 
button. "We're — we're going to Paradise now?" said Constant. "I — I'm going to get into 
Paradise?" "Don't ask me why, old sport," said Stony, "but somebody up there likes you." 

ALL THIS HAPPENED, more or less. The war parts, anyway, are pretty much true. One
guy I knew really was shot in Dresden for taking a teapot that wasn’t his. Another guy I knew really did threaten to have his personal enemies killed by hired gunmen after the war. And so on. I’ve changed all the names.
I really did go back to Dresden with Guggenheim money (God love it) in 1967. It looked a lot like Dayton, Ohio, more open spaces than Dayton has. There must be tons of human bone meal in the ground.
I went back there with an old war buddy, Bernard V. O’Hare, and we made friends with a cab driver, who took us to the slaughterhouse where we had been locked up at night as prisoners of war. His name was Gerhard Müller. He told us that he was a prisoner of the Americans for a while. We asked him how it was to live under Communism, and he said that it was terrible at 􏰀rst, because everybody had to work so hard, and because there wasn’t much shelter or food or clothing. But things were much better now. He had a pleasant little apartment, and his daughter was getting an excellent education. His mother was incinerated in the Dresden fire-storm. So it goes.
He sent O’Hare a postcard at Christmastime, and here is what it said:
“I wish you and your family also as to your friend Merry Christmas and a happy New Year and I hope that we’ll meet again in a world of peace and freedom in the taxi cab if the accident will.”
I like that very much: “If the accident will.”
I would hate to tell you what this lousy little book cost me in money and anxiety and time. When I got home from the Second World War twenty-three years ago, I thought it would be easy for me to write about the destruction of Dresden, since all I would have to do would be to report what I had seen. And I thought, too, that it would be a masterpiece or at least make me a lot of money, since the subject was so big.
But not many words about Dresden came from my mind then—not enough of them to make a book, anyway. And not many words come now, either, when I have become an old fart with his memories and his Pall Malls, with his sons full grown.
I think of how useless the Dresden part of my memory has been, and yet how tempting Dresden has been to write about, and I am reminded of the famous limerick:
There was a young man from Stamboul, Who soliloquized thus to his tool:
“You took all my wealth
  
And you ruined my health,
And now you won’t pee, you old fool.”
And I’m reminded, too, of the song that goes:
My name is Yon Yonson,
I work in Wisconsin,
I work in a lumbermill there.
The people I meet when I walk down the street, They say, “What’s your name?”
And I say, My name is Yon Yonson,
I work in Wisconsin ...”
And so on to infinity.
Over the years, people I’ve met have often asked me what I’m working on, and I’ve usually replied that the main thing was a book about Dresden.
I said that to Harrison Starr, the movie-maker, one time, and he raised his eyebrows and inquired, “Is it an anti-war book?”
“Yes,” I said. “I guess.”
“You know what I say to people when I hear they’re writing anti-war books?”
“No. What do you say, Harrison Starr?”
“I say, ‘Why don’t you write an anti-glacier book instead?’”
What he meant, of course, was that there would always be wars, that they were as easy to stop as glaciers. I believe that, too.
And even if wars didn’t keep coming like glaciers, there would still be plain old death.
When I was somewhat younger, working on my famous Dresden book, I asked an old war buddy named Bernard V. O’Hare if I could come to see him. He was a district attorney in Pennsylvania. I was a writer on Cape Cod. We had been privates in the war, infantry scouts. We had never expected to make any money after the war, but we were doing quite well.
I had the Bell Telephone Company 􏰀nd him for me. They are wonderful that way. I have this disease late at night sometimes, involving alcohol and the telephone. I get drunk, and I drive my wife away with a breath like mustard gas and roses. And then, speaking gravely and elegantly into the telephone, I ask the telephone operators to connect me with this friend or that one, from whom I have not heard in years.
I got O’Hare on the line in this way. He is short and I am tall. We were Mutt and Je􏰃 in the war. We were captured together in the war. I told him who I was on the telephone. He had no trouble believing it. He was up. He was reading. Everybody else in his house was asleep.
 
“Listen—” I said, “I’m writing this book about Dresden. I’d like some help remembering stu􏰃. I wonder if I could come down and see you, and we could drink and talk and remember.”
He was unenthusiastic. He said he couldn’t remember much. He told me, though, to come ahead.
“I think the climax of the book will be the execution of poor old Edgar Derby,” I said. “The irony is so great. A whole city gets burned down, and thousands and thousands of people are killed. And then this one American foot soldier is arrested in the ruins for taking a teapot. And he’s given a regular trial, and then he’s shot by a 􏰀ring squad.”
“Um,” said O’Hare.
“Don’t you think that’s really where the climax should come?”
“I don’t know anything about it,” he said. “That’s your trade, not mine.”
As a tra􏰂cker in climaxes and thrills and characterization and wonderful dialogue and suspense and confrontations, I had outlined the Dresden story many times. The best outline I ever made, or anyway the prettiest one, was on the back of a roll of wallpaper.
I used my daughter’s crayons, a di􏰃erent color for each main character. One end of the wallpaper was the beginning of the story, and the other end was the end, and then there was all that middle part, which was the middle. And the blue line met the red line and then the yellow line, and the yellow line stopped because the character represented by the yellow line was dead. And so on. The destruction of Dresden was represented by a vertical band of orange cross-hatching, and all the lines that were still alive passed through it, came out the other side.
The end, where all the lines stopped, was a beet􏰀eld on the Elbe, outside of Halle. The rain was coming down. The war in Europe had been over for a couple of weeks. We were formed in ranks, with Russian soldiers guarding us—Englishmen, Americans, Dutchmen, Belgians, Frenchmen, Canadians, South Africans, New Zealanders, Australians, thousands of us about to stop being prisoners of war.
And on the other side of the 􏰀eld were thousands of Russians and Poles and Yugoslavians and so on guarded by American soldiers. An exchange was made there in the rain—one for one. O’Hare and I climbed into the back of an American truck with a lot of others. O’Hare didn’t have any souvenirs. Almost everybody else did. I had a ceremonial Luftwa􏰃e saber, still do. The rabid little American I call Paul Lazzaro in this book had about a quart of diamonds and emeralds and rubies and so on. He had taken these from dead people in the cellars of Dresden. So it goes.
An idiotic Englishman, who had lost all his teeth somewhere, had his souvenir in a canvas bag. The bag was resting on my insteps. He would peek into the bag every now and then, and he would roll his eyes and swivel his scrawny neck, trying to catch people looking covetously at his bag. And he would bounce the bag on my insteps.
 
I thought this bouncing was accidental. But I was mistaken. He had to show somebody what was in the bag, and he had decided he could trust me. He caught my eye, winked, opened the bag. There was a plaster model of the Ei􏰃el Tower in there. It was painted gold. It had a clock in it.
“There’s a smashin’ thing,” he said.
And we were 􏰁own to a rest camp in France, where we were fed chocolate malted milkshakes and other rich foods until we were all covered with baby fat. Then we were sent home, and I married a pretty girl who was covered with baby fat, too.
And we had babies.
And they’re all grown up now, and I’m an old fart with his memories and his Pall Malls. My name is Yon Yonson, I work in Wisconsin, I work in a lumbermill there.
Sometimes I try to call up old girl friends on the telephone late at night, after my wife has gone to bed. “Operator, I wonder if you could give me the number of a Mrs. So- and-So. I think she lives at such-and-such.”
“I’m sorry, sir. There is no such listing.”
“Thanks, Operator. Thanks just the same.”
And I let the dog out, or I let him in, and we talk some. I let him know I like him, and he lets me know he likes me. He doesn’t mind the smell of mustard gas and roses.
“You’re all right, Sandy,” I’ll say to the dog. “You know that, Sandy? You’re O.K.”
Sometimes I’ll turn on the radio and listen to a talk program from Boston or New York. I can’t stand recorded music if I’ve been drinking a good deal.
Sooner or later I go to bed, and my wife asks me what time it is. She always has to know the time. Sometimes I don’t know, and I say, “Search me.”
I think about my education sometimes. I went to the University of Chicago for a while after the Second World War. I was a student in the Department of Anthropology. At that time, they were teaching that there was absolutely no di􏰃erence between anybody. They may be teaching that still.
Another thing they taught was that nobody was ridiculous or bad or disgusting. Shortly before my father died, he said to me, “You know—you never wrote a story with a villain in it.”
I told him that was one of the things I learned in college after the war.
While I was studying to be an anthropologist, I was also working as a police reporter for the famous Chicago City News Bureau for twenty-eight dollars a week. One time they switched me from the night shift to the day shift, so I worked sixteen hours straight. We were supported by all the newspapers in town, and the AP and the UP and all that. And we would cover the courts and the police stations and the Fire Department and the Coast Guard out on Lake Michigan and all that. We were connected to the
 
institutions that supported us by means of pneumatic tubes which ran under the streets of Chicago.
Reporters would telephone in stories to writers wearing headphones, and the writers would stencil the stories on mimeograph sheets. The stories were mimeographed and stu􏰃ed into the brass and velvet cartridges which the pneumatic tubes ate. The very toughest reporters and writers were women who had taken over the jobs of men who’d gone to war.
And the 􏰀rst story I covered I had to dictate over the telephone to one of those beastly girls. It was about a young veteran who had taken a job running an old- fashioned elevator in an o􏰂ce building. The elevator door on the 􏰀rst 􏰁oor was ornamental iron lace. Iron ivy snaked in and out of the holes. There was an iron twig with two iron lovebirds perched upon it.
This veteran decided to take his car into the basement, and he closed the door and started down, but his wedding ring was caught in all the ornaments. So he was hoisted into the air and the 􏰁oor of the car went down, dropped out from under him, and the top of the car squashed him. So it goes.
So I phoned this in, and the woman who was going to cut the stencil asked me, “What did his wife say?”
“She doesn’t know yet,” I said. “It just happened.”
“Call her up and get a statement.”
“What?”
“Tell her you’re Captain Finn of the Police Department. Say you have some sad news. Give her the news, and see what she says.”
So I did. She said about what you would expect her to say. There was a baby. And so on.
When I got back to the o􏰂ce, the woman writer asked me, just for her own information, what the squashed guy had looked like when he was squashed.
I told her.
“Did it bother you?” she said. She was eating a Three Musketeers Candy Bar. “Heck no, Nancy,” I said. “I’ve seen lots worse than that in the war.”
Even then I was supposedly writing a book about Dresden. It wasn’t a famous air raid back then in America. Not many Americans knew how much worse it had been than Hiroshima, for instance. I didn’t know that, either. There hadn’t been much publicity.
I happened to tell a University of Chicago professor at a cocktail party about the raid as I had seen it, about the book I would write. He was a member of a thing called The Committee on Social Thought. And he told me about the concentration camps, and about how the Germans had made soap and candles out of the fat of dead Jews and so
 
on. All I could say was, “I know, I know. I know.”
 World War Two had certainly made everybody very tough. And I became a public relations man for General Electric in Schenectady, New York, and a volunteer 􏰀reman in the village of Alplaus, where I bought my 􏰀rst home. My boss there was one of the toughest guys I ever hope to meet. He had been a lieutenant colonel in public relations in Baltimore. While I was in Schenectady he joined the Dutch Reformed Church, which is a very tough church, indeed.
He used to ask me sneeringly sometimes why I hadn’t been an o􏰂cer, as though I’d done something wrong.
My wife and I had lost our baby fat. Those were our scrawny years. We had a lot of scrawny veterans and their scrawny wives for friends. The nicest veterans in Schenectady, I thought, the kindest and funniest ones, the ones who hated war the most, were the ones who’d really fought.
I wrote the Air Force back then, asking for details about the raid on Dresden, who ordered it, how many planes did it, why they did it, what desirable results there had been and so on. I was answered by a man who, like myself, was in public relations. He said that he was sorry, but that the information was top secret still.
I read the letter out loud to my wife, and I said, “Secret? My God—from whom?”
We were United World Federalists back then. I don’t know what we are now.
Telephoners, I guess. We telephone a lot—or I do, anyway, late at night.
A couple of weeks after I telephoned my old war buddy, Bernard V. O’Hare, I really did go to see him. That must have been in 1964 or so—whatever the last year was for the New York World’s Fair. Eheu, fugaces labuntur anni. My name is Yon Yonson. There was a young man from Stamboul.
I took two little girls with me, my daughter, Nanny, and her best friend, Allison Mitchell. They had never been o􏰃 Cape Cod before. When we saw a river, we had to stop so they could stand by it and think about it for a while. They had never seen water in that long and narrow, unsalted form before. The river was the Hudson. There were carp in there and we saw them. They were as big as atomic submarines.
We saw waterfalls, too, streams jumping o􏰃 cli􏰃s into the valley of the Delaware. There were lots of things to stop and see—and then it was time to go, always time to go. The little girls were wearing white party dresses and black party shoes, so strangers would know at once how nice they were. “Time to go, girls,” I’d say. And we would go.
And the sun went down, and we had supper in an Italian place, and then I knocked on the front door of the beautiful stone house of Bernard V. O’Hare. I was carrying a
  
bottle of Irish whiskey like a dinner bell.
 I met his nice wife, Mary, to whom I dedicate this book. I dedicate it to Gerhard Müller, the Dresden taxi driver, too. Mary O’Hare is a trained nurse, which is a lovely thing for a woman to be.
Mary admired the two little girls I’d brought, mixed them in with her own children, sent them all upstairs to play games and watch television. It was only after the children were gone that I sensed that Mary didn’t like me or didn’t like something about the night. She was polite but chilly.
“It’s a nice cozy house you have here,” I said, and it really was.
“I’ve fixed up a place where you can talk and not be bothered,” she said.
“Good,” I said, and I imagined two leather chairs near a 􏰀re in a paneled room, where two old soldiers could drink and talk. But she took us into the kitchen. She had put two straight-backed chairs at a kitchen table with a white porcelain top. That table top was screaming with re􏰁ected light from a two-hundred-watt bulb overhead. Mary had prepared an operating room. She put only one glass on it, which was for me. She explained that O’Hare couldn’t drink the hard stuff since the war.
So we sat down. O’Hare was embarrassed, but he wouldn’t tell me what was wrong. I couldn’t imagine what it was about me that could burn up Mary so. I was a family man. I’d been married only once. I wasn’t a drunk. I hadn’t done her husband any dirt in the war.
She 􏰀xed herself a Coca-Cola, made a lot of noise banging the ice-cube tray in the stainless steel sink. Then she went into another part of the house. But she wouldn’t sit still. She was moving all over the house, opening and shutting doors, even moving furniture around to work off anger.
I asked O’Hare what I’d said or done to make her act that way.
“It’s all right,” he said. “Don’t worry about it. It doesn’t have anything to do with you.” That was kind of him. He was lying. It had everything to do with me.
So we tried to ignore Mary and remember the war. I took a couple of belts of the booze I’d brought. We would chuckle or grin sometimes, as though war stories were coming back, but neither one of us could remember anything good. O’Hare remembered one guy who got into a lot of wine in Dresden, before it was bombed, and we had to take him home in a wheelbarrow. It wasn’t much to write a book about. I remembered two Russian soldiers who had looted a clock factory. They had a horse-drawn wagon full of clocks. They were happy and drunk. They were smoking huge cigarettes they had rolled in newspaper.
That was about it for memories, and Mary was still making noise. She 􏰀nally came out in the kitchen again for another Coke. She took another tray of ice cubes from the refrigerator, banged it in the sink, even though there was already plenty of ice out.

Then she turned to me, let me see how angry she was, and that the anger was for me. She had been talking to herself, so what she said was a fragment of a much larger conversation. “You were just babies then!” she said.
“What?” I said.
“You were just babies in the war—like the ones upstairs!”
I nodded that this was true. We had been foolish virgins in the war, right at the end of childhood.
“But you’re not going to write it that way, are you.” This wasn’t a question. It was an accusation.
“I—I don’t know,” I said.
“Well, I know,” she said. “You’ll pretend you were men instead of babies, and you’ll be played in the movies by Frank Sinatra and John Wayne or some of those other glamorous, war-loving, dirty old men. And war will look just wonderful, so we’ll have a lot more of them. And they’ll be fought by babies like the babies upstairs.”
So then I understood. It was war that made her so angry. She didn’t want her babies or anybody else’s babies killed in wars. And she thought wars were partly encouraged by books and movies.
So I held up my right hand and I made her a promise: “Mary,” I said, “I don’t think this book of mine is ever going to be 􏰀nished. I must have written 􏰀ve thousand pages by now, and thrown them all away. If I ever do 􏰀nish it, though, I give you my word of honor: there won’t be a part for Frank Sinatra or John Wayne.
“I tell you what,” I said, “I’ll call it ‘The Children’s Crusade.’” She was my friend after that.
O’Hare and I gave up on remembering, went into the living room, talked about other things. We became curious about the real Children’s Crusade, so O’Hare looked it up in a book he had, Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds, by Charles Mackay, LL. D. It was first published in London in 1841.
Mackay had a low opinion of all Crusades. The Children’s Crusade struck him as only slightly more sordid than the ten Crusades for grown-ups. O’Hare read this handsome passage out loud:
History in her solemn page informs us that the crusaders were but ignorant and savage men, that their motives were those of bigotry unmitigated, and that their pathway was one of blood and tears. Romance, on the other hand, dilates upon their piety and heroism, and portrays, in her most glowing and impassioned hues, their virtue and magnanimity, the imperishable honor they acquired for themselves, and the great services they rendered to Christianity.
  
And then O’Hare read this: Now what was the grand result of all these struggles? Europe expended millions of her treasures, and the blood of two million of her people; and a handful of quarrelsome knights retained possession of Palestine for about one hundred years!
Mackay told us that the Children’s Crusade started in 1213, when two monks got the idea of raising armies of children in Germany and France, and selling them in North Africa as slaves. Thirty thousand children volunteered, thinking they were going to Palestine. They were no doubt idle and deserted children who generally swarm in great cities, nurtured on vice and daring, said Mackay, and ready for anything.
Pope Innocent the Third thought they were going to Palestine, too, and he was thrilled. “These children are awake while we are asleep!” he said.
Most of the children were shipped out of Marseilles, and about half of them drowned in shipwrecks. The other half got to North Africa where they were sold.
Through a misunderstanding, some children reported for duty at Genoa, where no slave ships were waiting. They were fed and sheltered and questioned kindly by good people there—then given a little money and a lot of advice and sent back home.
“Hooray for the good people of Genoa,” said Mary O’Hare.
I slept that night in one of the children’s bedrooms. O’Hare had put a book for me on the bedside table. It was Dresden, History, Stage and Gallery, by Mary Endell. It was published in 1908, and its introduction began:
It is hoped that this little book will make itself useful. It attempts to give to an English- reading public a bird’s-eye view of how Dresden came to look as it does, architecturally; of how it expanded musically, through the genius of a few men, to its present bloom; and it calls attention to certain permanent landmarks in art that make its Gallery the resort of those seeking lasting impressions.
I read some history further on:
Now, in 1760, Dresden underwent siege by the Prussians. On the 􏰀fteenth of July began the cannonade. The Picture-Gallery took 􏰀re. Many of the paintings had been transported to the Königstein, but some were seriously injured by splinters of bombshells,—notably Francia’s “Baptism of Christ.” Furthermore, the stately Kreuzkirche tower, from which the enemy’s movements had been watched day and night, stood in 􏰁ames. It later succumbed. In sturdy contrast with the pitiful fate of the Kreuzkirche, stood the Frauenkirche, from the curves of whose stone dome the Prussian bombs rebounded like rain. Friederich was obliged 􏰀nally to give up the siege, because he learned of the fall of Glatz, the critical point of his new conquests. “We must be off to Silesia, so that we do not lose everything.”
The devastation of Dresden was boundless. When Goethe as a young student visited the city, he still found sad ruins: “Von der Kuppel der Frauenkirche sah ich diese leidigen Trümmer zwischen die schöne städtische Ordnung hineingesät; da rühmte mir der Küster die Kunst des Baumeisters, welcher Kirche und Kuppel auf einen so unerwünschten Fall schon eingerichtet und bombenfest erbaut hatte. Der gute Sakristan deutete mir alsdann auf Ruinene nach allen Seiten und sagte bedenklich lakonisch: Das hat der Feind gethan!”

 The two little girls and I crossed the Delaware River where George Washington had crossed it, the next morning. We went to the New York World’s Fair, saw what the past had been like, according to the Ford Motor Car Company and Walt Disney, saw what the future would be like, according to General Motors.
And I asked myself about the present: how wide it was, how deep it was, how much was mine to keep.
I taught creative writing in the famous Writers Workshop at the University of Iowa for a couple of years after that. I got into some perfectly beautiful trouble, got out of it again. I taught in the afternoons. In the mornings I wrote. I was not to be disturbed. I was working on my famous book about Dresden.
And somewhere in there a nice man named Seymour Lawrence gave me a three- book contract, and I said, “O.K., the 􏰀rst of the three will be my famous book about Dresden.”
The friends of Seymour Lawrence call him “Sam.” And I say to Sam now: “Sam— here’s the book.”
It is so short and jumbled and jangled, Sam, because there is nothing intelligent to say about a massacre. Everybody is supposed to be dead, to never say anything or want anything ever again. Everything is supposed to be very quiet after a massacre, and it always is, except for the birds.
And what do the birds say? All there is to say about a massacre, things like “Poo-tee- weet?”
I have told my sons that they are not under any circumstances to take part in massacres, and that the news of massacres of enemies is not to 􏰀ll them with satisfaction or glee.
I have also told them not to work for companies which make massacre machinery, and to express contempt for people who think we need machinery like that.
As I’ve said: I recently went back to Dresden with my friend O’Hare. We had a million laughs in Hamburg and West Berlin and East Berlin and Vienna and Salzburg and Helsinki, and in Leningrad, too. It was very good for me, because I saw a lot of authentic backgrounds for made-up stories which I will write later on. One of them will be “Russian Baroque” and another will be “No Kissing” and another will be “Dollar Bar” and another will be “If the Accident Will,” and so on.
     
And so on.
 There was a Lufthansa plane that was supposed to 􏰁y from Philadelphia to Boston to Frankfurt. O’Hare was supposed to get on in Philadelphia and I was supposed to get on in Boston, and o􏰃 we’d go. But Boston was socked in, so the plane 􏰁ew straight to Frankfurt from Philadelphia. And I became a non-person in the Boston fog, and Lufthansa put me in a limousine with some other non-persons and sent us to a motel for a non-night.
The time would not pass. Somebody was playing with the clocks, and not only with the electric clocks, but the wind-up kind, too. The second hand on my watch would twitch once, and a year would pass, and then it would twitch again.
There was nothing I could do about it. As an Earthling, I had to believe whatever clocks said—and calendars.
I had two books with me, which I’d meant to read on the plane. One was Words for the Wind, by Theodore Roethke, and this is what I found in there:
I wake to sleep, and take my waking slow. I feel my fate in what I cannot fear.
I learn by going where I have to go.
My other book was Erika Ostrovsky’s Céline and His Vision. Céline was a brave French soldier in the First World War—until his skull was cracked. After that he couldn’t sleep, and there were noises in his head. He became a doctor, and he treated poor people in the daytime, and he wrote grotesque novels all night. No art is possible without a dance with death, he wrote.
The truth is death, he wrote. I’ve fought nicely against it as long as I could ... danced with it, festooned it, waltzed it around ... decorated it with streamers, titillated it ...
Time obsessed him. Miss Ostrovsky reminded me of the amazing scene in Death on the Installment Plan where Céline wants to stop the bustling of a street crowd. He screams on paper, Make them stop ... don’t let them move anymore at all ... There, make them freeze ... once and for all! ... So that they won’t disappear anymore!
I looked through the Gideon Bible in my motel room for tales of great destruction. The sun was risen upon the Earth when Lot entered into Zo-ar, I read. Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and 􏰀re from the Lord out of Heaven; and He overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.
  So it goes.

Those were vile people in both those cities, as is well known. The world was better off without them.
And Lot’s wife, of course, was told not to look back where all those people and their homes had been. But she did look back, and I love her for that, because it was so human.
So she was turned to a pillar of salt. So it goes.
People aren’t supposed to look back. I’m certainly not going to do it anymore.
I’ve finished my war book now. The next one I write is going to be fun.
This one is a failure, and had to be, since it was written by a pillar of salt. It begins like this:
Listen:
Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck in time. It ends like this:
Poo-te e -we e t?
 
2 LISTEN:
Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck in time.
Billy has gone to sleep a senile widower and awakened on his wedding day. He has walked through a door in 1955 and come out another one in 1941. He has gone back through that door to 􏰀nd himself in 1963. He has seen his birth and death many times, he says, and pays random visits to all the events in between.
He says.
Billy is spastic in time, has no control over where he is going next, and the trips aren’t necessarily fun. He is in a constant state of stage fright, he says, because he never knows what part of his life he is going to have to act in next.
Billy was born in 1922 in Ilium, New York, the only child of a barber there. He was a funny-looking child who became a funny-looking youth—tall and weak, and shaped like a bottle of Coca-Cola. He graduated from Ilium High School in the upper third of his class, and attended night sessions at the Ilium School of Optometry for one semester before being drafted for military service in the Second World War. His father died in a hunting accident during the war. So it goes.
Billy saw service with the infantry in Europe, and was taken prisoner by the Germans. After his honorable discharge from the Army in 1945, Billy again enrolled in the Ilium School of Optometry. During his senior year there, he became engaged to the daughter of the founder and owner of the school, and then su􏰃ered a mild nervous collapse.
He was treated in a veteran’s hospital near Lake Placid, and was given shock treatments and released. He married his 􏰀ancée, 􏰀nished his education, and was set up in business in Ilium by his father-in-law. Ilium is a particularly good city for optometrists because the General Forge and Foundry Company is there. Every employee is required to own a pair of safety glasses, and to wear them in areas where manufacturing is going on. GF&F has sixty-eight thousand employees in Ilium. That calls for a lot of lenses and a lot of frames.
Frames are where the money is.
Billy became rich. He had two children, Barbara and Robert. In time, his daughter
    
Barbara married another optometrist, and Billy set him up in business. Billy’s son Robert had a lot of trouble in high school, but then he joined the famous Green Berets. He straightened out, became a fine young man, and he fought in Vietnam.
Early in 1968, a group of optometrists, with Billy among them, chartered an airplane to 􏰁y them from Ilium to an international convention of optometrists in Montreal. The plane crashed on top of Sugarbush Mountain, in Vermont. Everybody was killed but Billy. So it goes.
While Billy was recuperating in a hospital in Vermont, his wife died accidentally of carbon-monoxide poisoning. So it goes.
When Billy 􏰀nally got home to Ilium after the airplane crash, he was quiet for a while. He had a terrible scar across the top of his skull. He didn’t resume practice. He had a housekeeper. His daughter came over almost every day.
And then, without any warning, Billy went to New York City, and got on an all- night radio program devoted to talk. He told about having come unstuck in time. He said, too, that he had been kidnapped by a 􏰁ying saucer in 1967. The saucer was from the planet Tralfamadore, he said. He was taken to Tralfamadore, where he was displayed naked in a zoo, he said. He was mated there with a former Earthling movie star named Montana Wildhack.
Some night owls in Ilium heard Billy on the radio, and one of them called Billy’s daughter Barbara. Barbara was upset. She and her husband went down to New York and brought Billy home. Billy insisted mildly that everything he had said on the radio was true. He said he had been kidnapped by the Tralfamadorians on the night of his daughter’s wedding. He hadn’t been missed, he said, because the Tralfamadorians had taken him through a time warp, so that he could be on Tralfamadore for years, and still be away from Earth for only a microsecond.
Another month went by without incident, and then Billy wrote a letter to the Ilium News Leader, which the paper published. It described the creatures from Tralfamadore.
The letter said that they were two feet high, and green, and shaped like plumber’s friends. Their suction cups were on the ground, and their shafts, which were extremely 􏰁exible, usually pointed to the sky. At the top of each shaft was a little hand with a green eye in its palm. The creatures were friendly, and they could see in four dimensions. They pitied Earthlings for being able to see only three. They had many wonderful things to teach Earthlings, especially about time. Billy promised to tell what some of those wonderful things were in his next letter.
Billy was working on his second letter when the 􏰀rst letter was published. The second letter started out like this:
   
“The most important thing I learned on Tralfamadore was that when a person dies he only appears to die. He is still very much alive in the past, so it is very silly for people to cry at his funeral. All moments, past, present, and future, always have existed, always will exist. The Tralfamadorians can look at all the di􏰃erent moments just the way we can look at a stretch of the Rocky Mountains, for instance. They can see how permanent all the moments are, and they can look at any moment that interests them. It is just an illusion we have here on Earth that one moment follows another one, like beads on a string, and that once a moment is gone it is gone forever.
“When a Tralfamadorian sees a corpse, all he thinks is that the dead person is in bad condition in that particular moment, but that the same person is just 􏰀ne in plenty of other moments. Now, when I myself hear that somebody is dead, I simply shrug and say what the Tralfamadorians say about dead people, which is ‘So it goes.’”
And so on.
Billy was working on this letter in the basement rumpus room of his empty house. It was his housekeeper’s day off. There was an old typewriter in the rumpus room. It was a beast. It weighed as much as a storage battery. Billy couldn’t carry it very far very easily, which was why he was writing in the rumpus room instead of somewhere else.
The oil burner had quit. A mouse had eaten through the insulation of a wire leading to the thermostat. The temperature in the house was down to 􏰀fty degrees, but Billy hadn’t noticed. He wasn’t warmly dressed, either. He was barefoot, and still in his pajamas and a bathrobe, though it was late afternoon. His bare feet were blue and ivory.
The cockles of Billy’s heart, at any rate, were glowing coals. What made them so hot was Billy’s belief that he was going to comfort so many people with the truth about time. His door chimes upstairs had been ringing and ringing. It was his daughter Barbara up there, wanting in. Now she let herself in with a key, crossed the 􏰁oor over his head, calling, “Father? Daddy, where are you?” And so on.
Billy didn’t answer her, so she was nearly hysterical, expecting to 􏰀nd his corpse. And then she looked into the very last place there was to look—which was the rumpus room.
“Why didn’t you answer me when I called?” Barbara wanted to know, standing there in the door of the rumpus room. She had the afternoon paper with her, the one in which Billy described his friends from Tralfamadore.
“I didn’t hear you,” said Billy.
The orchestration of the moment was this: Barbara was only twenty-one years old, but she thought her father was senile, even though he was only forty-six—senile because of damage to his brain in the airplane crash. She also thought that she was head of the
  
family, since she had had to manage her mother’s funeral, since she had to get a housekeeper for Billy, and all that. Also, Barbara and her husband were having to look after Billy’s business interests, which were considerable, since Billy didn’t seem to give a damn for business any more. All this responsibility at such an early age made her a bitchy 􏰁ibbertigibbet. And Billy, meanwhile, was trying to hang onto his dignity, to persuade Barbara and everybody else that he was far from senile, that, on the contrary, he was devoting himself to a calling much higher than mere business.
He was doing nothing less now, he thought, than prescribing corrective lenses for Earthling souls. So many of those souls were lost and wretched, Billy believed, because they could not see as well as his little green friends on Tralfamadore.
•••
“Don’t lie to me, Father,” said Barbara. “I know perfectly well you heard me when I called.” This was a fairly pretty girl, except that she had legs like an Edwardian grand piano. Now she raised hell with him about the letter in the paper. She said he was making a laughing stock of himself and everybody associated with him.
“Father, Father, Father—” said Barbara, “what are we going to do with you? Are you going to force us to put you where your mother is?” Billy’s mother was still alive. She was in bed in an old people’s home called Pine Knoll on the edge of Ilium.
“What is it about my letter that makes you so mad?” Billy wanted to know.
“It’s all just crazy. None of it’s true!”
“It’s all true.” Billy’s anger was not going to rise with hers. He never got mad at anything. He was wonderful that way.
“There is no such planet as Tralfamadore.”
“It can’t be detected from Earth, if that’s what you mean,” said Billy. “Earth can’t be detected from Tralfamadore, as far as that goes. They’re both very small. They’re very far apart.”
“Where did you get a crazy name like ‘Tralfamadore?’”
“That’s what the creatures who live there call it.”
“Oh God,” said Barbara, and she turned her back on him. She celebrated frustration by clapping her hands. “May I ask you a simple question?”
“Of course.”
“Why is it you never mentioned any of this before the airplane crash?” “I didn’t think the time was ripe.”
And so on. Billy says that he 􏰀rst came unstuck in time in 1944, long before his trip to Tralfamadore. The Tralfamadorians didn’t have anything to do with his coming unstuck. They were simply able to give him insights into what was really going on.
 Billy 􏰀rst came unstuck while World War Two was in progress. Billy was a

chaplain’s assistant in the war. A chaplain’s assistant is customarily a 􏰀gure of fun in the American Army. Billy was no exception. He was powerless to harm the enemy or to help his friends. In fact, he had no friends. He was a valet to a preacher, expected no promotions or medals, bore no arms, and had a meek faith in a loving Jesus which most soldiers found putrid.
While on maneuvers in South Carolina, Billy played hymns he knew from childhood, played them on a little black organ which was waterproof. It had thirty-nine keys and two stops—vox humana and vox celeste. Billy also had charge of a portable altar, an olive-drab attaché case with telescoping legs. It was lined with crimson plush, and nestled in that passionate plush were an anodized aluminum cross and a Bible.
The altar and the organ were made by a vacuum-cleaner company in Camden, New Jersey—and said so.
One time on maneuvers Billy was playing “A Mighty Fortress Is Our God,” with music by Johann Sebastian Bach and words by Martin Luther. It was Sunday morning. Billy and his chaplain had gathered a congregation of about 􏰀fty soldiers on a Carolina hillside. An umpire appeared. There were umpires everywhere, men who said who was winning or losing the theoretical battle, who was alive and who was dead.
The umpire had comical news. The congregation had been theoretically spotted from the air by a theoretical enemy. They were all theoretically deadnow. The theoretical corpses laughed and ate a hearty noontime meal.
Remembering this incident years later, Billy was struck by what a Tralfamadorian adventure with death that had been, to be dead and to eat at the same time.
Toward the end of maneuvers, Billy was given an emergency furlough home because his father, a barber in Ilium, New York, was shot dead by a friend while they were out hunting deer. So it goes.
When Billy got back from his furlough, there were orders for him to go overseas. He was needed in the headquarters company of an infantry regiment 􏰀ghting in Luxembourg. The regimental chaplain’s assistant had been killed in action. So it goes.
When Billy joined the regiment, it was in the process of being destroyed by the Germans in the famous Battle of the Bulge. Billy never even got to meet the chaplain he was supposed to assist, was never even issued a steel helmet and combat boots. This was in December of 1944, during the last mighty German attack of the war.
Billy survived, but he was a dazed wanderer far behind the new German lines. Three other wanderers, not quite so dazed, allowed Billy to tag along. Two of them were scouts, and one was an antitank gunner. They were without food or maps. Avoiding Germans, they were delivering themselves into rural silences ever more profound. They ate snow.
  
They went Indian 􏰀le. First came the scouts, clever, graceful, quiet. They had ri􏰁es. Next came the antitank gunner, clumsy and dense, warning Germans away with a Colt .45 automatic in one hand and a trench knife in the other.
Last came Billy Pilgrim, empty-handed, bleakly ready for death. Billy was preposterous—six feet and three inches tall, with a chest and shoulders like a box of kitchen matches. He had no helmet, no overcoat, no weapon, and no boots. On his feet were cheap, low-cut civilian shoes which he had bought for his father’s funeral. Billy had lost a heel, which made him bob up-and-down, up-and-down. The involuntary dancing, up-and-down, up-and-down, made his hip joints sore.
Billy was wearing a thin 􏰀eld jacket, a shirt and trousers of scratchy wool, and long underwear that was soaked with sweat. He was the only one of the four who had a beard. It was a random, bristly beard, and some of the bristles were white, even though Billy was only twenty-one years old. He was also going bald. Wind and cold and violent exercise had turned his face crimson.
He didn’t look like a soldier at all. He looked like a filthy flamingo.
And on the third day of wandering, somebody shot at the four from far away—shot four times as they crossed a narrow brick road. One shot was for the scouts. The next one was for the antitank gunner, whose name was Roland Weary.
The third bullet was for the 􏰀lthy 􏰁amingo, who stopped dead center in the road when the lethal bee buzzed past his ear. Billy stood there politely, giving the marksman another chance. It was his addled understanding of the rules of warfare that the marksman should be given a second chance. The next shot missed Billy’s kneecaps by inches, going end-on-end, from the sound of it.
Roland Weary and the scouts were safe in a ditch, and Weary growled at Billy, “Get out of the road, you dumb motherfucker.” The last word was still a novelty in the speech of white people in 1944. It was fresh and astonishing to Billy, who had never fucked anybody—and it did its job. It woke him up and got him off the road.
“Saved your life again, you dumb bastard,” Weary said to Billy in the ditch. He had been saving Billy’s life for days, cursing him, kicking him, slapping him, making him move. It was absolutely necessary that cruelty be used, because Billy wouldn’t do anything to save himself. Billy wanted to quit. He was cold, hungry, embarrassed, incompetent. He could scarcely distinguish between sleep and wakefulness now, on the third day, found no important differences, either, between walking and standing still.
He wished everybody would leave him alone. “You guys go on without me,” he said again and again.
   Weary was as new to war as Billy. He was a replacement, too. As a part of a gun

crew, he had helped to 􏰀re one shot in anger—from a 57-millimeter antitank gun. The gun made a ripping sound like the opening of the zipper on the 􏰁y of God Almighty. The gun lapped up snow and vegetation with a blowtorch thirty feet long. The 􏰁ame left a black arrow on the ground, showing the Germans exactly where the gun was hidden. The shot was a miss.
What had been missed was a Tiger tank. It swiveled its 88-millimeter snout around sniffingly, saw the arrow on the ground. It fired. It killed everybody on the gun crew but Weary. So it goes.
Roland Weary was only eighteen, was at the end of an unhappy childhood spent mostly in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He had been unpopular in Pittsburgh. He had been unpopular because he was stupid and fat and mean, and smelled like bacon no matter how much he washed. He was always being ditched in Pittsburgh by people who did not want him with them.
It made Weary sick to be ditched. When Weary was ditched, he would 􏰀nd somebody who was even more unpopular than himself, and he would horse around with that person for a while, pretending to be friendly. And then he would 􏰀nd some pretext for beating the shit out of him.
It was a pattern. It was a crazy, sexy, murderous relationship Weary entered into with people he eventually beat up. He told them about his father’s collection of guns and swords and torture instruments and leg irons and so on. Weary’s father, who was a plumber, actually did collect such things, and his collection was insured for four thousand dollars. He wasn’t alone. He belonged to a big club composed of people who collected things like that.
Weary’s father once gave Weary’s mother a Spanish thumbscrew in working condition—for a kitchen paperweight. Another time he gave her a table lamp whose base was a model one foot high of the famous “Iron Maiden of Nuremberg.” The real Iron Maiden was a medieval torture instrument, a sort of boiler which was shaped like a woman on the outside—and lined with spikes. The front of the woman was composed of two hinged doors. The idea was to put a criminal inside and then close the doors slowly. There were two special spikes where his eyes would be. There was a drain in the bottom to let out all the blood.
So it goes.
Weary had told Billy Pilgrim about the Iron Maiden, about the drain in her bottom —and what that was for. He had talked to Billy about dum-dums. He told him about his father’s Derringer pistol, which could be carried in a vest pocket, which was yet capable of making a hole in a man “which a bull bat could 􏰁y through without touching either wing.”
  
Weary scornfully bet Billy one time that he didn’t even know what a blood gutter was. Billy guessed that it was the drain in the bottom of the Iron Maiden, but that was wrong. A blood gutter, Billy learned, was the shallow groove in the side of the blade of a sword or bayonet.
Weary told Billy about neat tortures he’d read about or seen in the movies or heard on the radio—about other neat tortures he himself had invented. One of the inventions was sticking a dentist’s drill into a guy’s ear. He asked Billy what he thought the worst form of execution was. Billy had no opinion. The correct answer turned out to be this: “You stake a guy out on an anthill in the desert—see? He’s facing upward, and you put honey all over his balls and pecker, and you cut o􏰃 his eyelids so he has to stare at the sun till he dies.” So it goes.
Now, lying in the ditch with Billy and the scouts after having been shot at, Weary made Billy take a very close look at his trench knife. It wasn’t government issue. It was a present from his father. It had a ten-inch blade that was triangular in cross section. Its grip consisted of brass knuckles, was a chain of rings through which Weary slipped his stubby fingers. The rings weren’t simple. They bristled with spikes.
Weary laid the spikes along Billy’s cheek, roweled the cheek with savagely a􏰃ectionate restraint. “How’d you like to be hit with this—hm? Hmmmmmmmmm?” he wanted to know.
“I wouldn’t,” said Billy.
“Know why the blade’s triangular?”
“No.”
“Makes a wound that won’t close up.”
“Oh.”
“Makes a three-sided hole in a guy. You stick an ordinary knife in a guy—makes a slit. Right? A slit closes right up. Right?”
“Right.”
“Shit. What do you know? What the hell they teach in college?”
“I wasn’t there very long,” said Billy, which was true. He had had only six months of college, and the college hadn’t been a regular college, either. It had been the night school of the Ilium School of Optometry.
“Joe College,” said Weary scathingly.
Billy shrugged.
“There’s more to life than what you read in books,” said Weary. “You’ll 􏰀nd that
out.”Billy made no reply to this, either, there in the ditch, since he didn’t want the conversation to go on any longer than necessary. He was dimly tempted to say, though,
 
that he knew a thing or two about gore. Billy, after all, had contemplated torture and hideous wounds at the beginning and the end of nearly every day of his childhood. Billy had an extremely gruesome cruci􏰀x hanging on the wall of his little bedroom in Ilium. A military surgeon would have admired the clinical 􏰀delity of the artist’s rendition of all Christ’s wounds—the spear wound, the thorn wounds, the holes that were made by the iron spikes. Billy’s Christ died horribly. He was pitiful.
So it goes.
Billy wasn’t a Catholic, even though he grew up with a ghastly cruci􏰀x on the wall. His father had no religion. His mother was a substitute organist for several churches around town. She took Billy with her whenever she played, taught him to play a little, too. She said she was going to join a church as soon as she decided which one was right.
She never did decide. She did develop a terrific hankering for a crucifix, though. And she bought one from a Santa Fe gift shop during a trip the little family made out West during the Great Depression. Like so many Americans, she was trying to construct a life that made sense from things she found in gift shops.
And the crucifix went up on the wall of Billy Pilgrim.
The two scouts, loving the walnut stocks of their ri􏰁es in the ditch, whispered that it was time to move out again. Ten minutes had gone by without anybody’s coming to see if they were hit or not, to 􏰀nish them o􏰃. Whoever had shot was evidently far away and all alone.
And the four crawled out of the ditch without drawing any more 􏰀re. They crawled into a forest like the big, unlucky mammals they were. Then they stood up and began to walk quickly. The forest was dark and old. The pines were planted in ranks and 􏰀les. There was no undergrowth. Four inches of unmarked snow blanketed the ground. The Americans had no choice but to leave trails in the snow as unambiguous as diagrams in a book on ballroom dancing—step, slide, rest—step, slide, rest.
“Close it up and keep it closed!” Roland Weary warned Billy Pilgrim as they moved out. Weary looked like Tweedledum or Tweedledee, all bundled up for battle. He was short and thick.
He had every piece of equipment he had ever been issued, every present he’d received from home: helmet, helmet liner, wool cap, scarf, gloves, cotton undershirt, woolen undershirt, wool shirt, sweater, blouse, jacket, overcoat, cotton underpants, woolen underpants, woolen trousers, cotton socks, woolen socks, combat boots, gas mask, canteen, mess kit, 􏰀rst-aid kit, trench knife, blanket, shelter-half, raincoat, bulletproof Bible, a pamphlet entitled “Know Your Enemy,” another pamphlet entitled “Why We Fight,” and another pamphlet of German phrases rendered in English
   
phonetics, which would enable Weary to ask Germans questions such as “Where is your headquarters?” and “How many howitzers have you?” or to tell them, “Surrender. Your situation is hopeless,” and so on.
Weary had a block of balsa wood which was supposed to be a foxhole pillow. He had a prophylactic kit containing two tough condoms “For the Prevention of Disease Only!” He had a whistle he wasn’t going to show anybody until he got promoted to corporal. He had a dirty picture of a woman attempting sexual intercourse with a Shetland pony. He had made Billy Pilgrim admire that picture several times.
The woman and the pony were posed before velvet draperies which were fringed with deedlee-balls. They were 􏰁anked by Doric columns. In front of one column was a potted palm. The picture that Weary had was a print of the 􏰀rst dirty photograph in history. The word photography was 􏰀rst used in 1839, and it was in that year, too, that Louis J. M. Daguerre revealed to the French Academy that an image formed on a silvered metal plate covered with a thin 􏰀lm of silver iodide could be developed in the presence of mercury vapor.
In 1841, only two years later, an assistant to Daguerre, André Le Fèvre, was arrested in the Tuileries Gardens for attempting to sell a gentleman a picture of the woman and the pony. That was where Weary bought his picture, too—in the Tuileries. Le Fèvre argued that the picture was 􏰀ne art, and that his intention was to make Greek mythology come alive. He said the columns and the potted palm proved that.
When asked which myth he meant to represent, Le Fèvre replied that there were thousands of myths like that, with the woman a mortal and the pony a god.
He was sentenced to six months in prison. He died there of pneumonia. So it goes.
Billy and the scouts were skinny people. Roland Weary had fat to burn. He was a roaring furnace under all his layers of wool and straps and canvas. He had so much energy that he bustled back and forth between Billy and the scouts, delivering dumb messages which nobody had sent and which nobody was pleased to receive. He also began to suspect, since he was so much busier than anybody else, that he was the leader.
He was so hot and bundled up, in fact, that he had no sense of danger. His vision of the outside world was limited to what he could see through a narrow slit between the rim of his helmet and his scarf from home, which concealed his baby face from the bridge of his nose on down. He was so snug in there that he was able to pretend that he was safe at home, having survived the war, and that he was telling his parents and his sister a true war story—whereas the true war story was still going on.
Weary’s version of the true war story went like this: There was a big German attack, and Weary and his antitank buddies fought like hell until everybody was killed but Weary. So it goes. And then Weary tied in with two scouts, and they became close
  
friends immediately, and they decided to 􏰀ght their way back to their own lines. They were going to travel fast. They were damned if they’d surrender. They shook hands all around. They called themselves “The Three Musketeers.”
But then this damn college kid, who was so weak he shouldn’t even have been in the army, asked if he could come along. He didn’t even have a gun or a knife. He didn’t even have a helmet or a cap. He couldn’t even walk right—kept bobbing up-and-down, up-and-down, driving everybody crazy, giving their position away. He was pitiful. The Three Musketeers pushed and carried and dragged the college kid all the way back to their own lines, Weary’s story went. They saved his Goddamned hide for him.
In real life, Weary was retracing his steps, trying to 􏰀nd out what had happened to Billy. He had told the scouts to wait while he went back for the college bastard. He passed under a low branch now. It hit the top of his helmet with a clonk. Weary didn’t hear it. Somewhere a big dog was barking. Weary didn’t hear that, either. His war story was at a very exciting point. An o􏰂cer was congratulating the Three Musketeers, telling them that he was going to put them in for Bronze Stars.
“Anything else I can do for you boys?” said the officer.
“Yes, sir,” said one of the scouts. “We’d like to stick together for the rest of the war, sir. Is there some way you can 􏰀x it so nobody will ever break up the Three Musketeers?”
Billy Pilgrim had stopped in the forest. He was leaning against a tree with his eyes closed. His head was tilted back and his nostrils were 􏰁aring. He was like a poet in the Parthenon.
This was when Billy 􏰀rst came unstuck in time. His attention began to swing grandly through the full arc of his life, passing into death, which was violet light. There wasn’t anybody else there, or any thing. There was just violet light—and a hum.
And then Billy swung into life again, going backwards until he was in pre-birth, which was red light and bubbling sounds. And then he swung into life again and stopped. He was a little boy taking a shower with his hairy father at Ilium Y.M.C.A. He smelled chlorine from the swimming pool next door, heard the springboard boom.
Little Billy was terri􏰀ed, because his father had said Billy was going to learn to swim by the method of sink-or-swim. His father was going to throw Billy into the deep end, and Billy was going to damn well swim.
It was like an execution. Billy was numb as his father carried him from the shower room to the pool. His eyes were closed. When he opened his eyes, he was on the bottom of the pool, and there was beautiful music everywhere. He lost consciousness, but the music went on. He dimly sensed that somebody was rescuing him. Billy resented that.
  From there he traveled in time to 1965. He was forty-one years old, and he was

visiting his decrepit mother at Pine Knoll, an old people’s home he had put her in only a month before. She had caught pneumonia, and wasn’t expected to live. She did live, though, for years after that.
Her voice was nearly gone, so, in order to hear her, Billy had to put his ear right next to her papery lips. She evidently had something very important to say.
“How ... ?” she began, and she stopped. She was too tired. She hoped that she wouldn’t have to say the rest of the sentence, that Billy would finish it for her.
But Billy had no idea what was on her mind. “How what, Mother?” he prompted.
She swallowed hard, shed some tears. Then she gathered energy from all over her ruined body, even from her toes and 􏰀ngertips. At last she had accumulated enough to whisper this complete sentence:
“How did I get so old?”
Billy’s antique mother passed out, and Billy was led from the room by a pretty nurse. The body of an old man covered by a sheet was wheeled by just as Billy entered the corridor. The man had been a famous marathon runner in his day. So it goes. This was before Billy had his head broken in an airplane crash, by the way—before he became so vocal about flying saucers and traveling in time.
Billy sat down in a waiting room. He wasn’t a widower yet. He sensed something hard under the cushion of his overstu􏰃ed chair. He dug it out, discovered that it was a book, The Execution of Private Slovik, by William Bradford Huie. It was a true account of the death before an American 􏰀ring squad of Private Eddie D. Slovik, 36896415, the only American soldier to be shot for cowardice since the Civil War. So it goes.
Billy read the opinion of a sta􏰃 judge advocate who reviewed Slovik’s case, which ended like this: He has directly challenged the authority of the government, and future discipline depends upon a resolute reply to this challenge. If the death penalty is ever to be imposed for desertion, it should be imposed in this case, not as a punitive measure nor as retribution, but to maintain that discipline upon which alone an army can succeed against the enemy. There was no recommendation for clemency in the case and none is here recommended. So it goes.
Billy blinked in 1965, traveled in time to 1958. He was at a banquet in honor of a Little League team of which his son Robert was a member. The coach, who had never been married, was speaking. He was all choked up. “Honest to God,” he was saying, “I’d consider it an honor just to be water boy for these kids.”
Billy blinked in 1958, traveled in time to 1961. It was New Year’s Eve, and Billy was disgracefully drunk at a party where everybody was in optometry or married to an
   
optometrist.
Billy usually didn’t drink much, because the war had ruined his stomach, but he certainly had a snootful now, and he was being unfaithful to his wife Valencia for the 􏰀rst and only time. He had somehow persuaded a woman to come into the laundry room of the house, and then sit up on the gas dryer, which was running.
The woman was very drunk herself, and she helped Billy get her girdle o􏰃. “What was it you wanted to talk about?” she said.
“It’s all right,” said Billy. He honestly thought it was all right. He couldn’t remember the name of the woman.
“How come they call you Billy instead of William?”
“Business reasons,” said Billy. That was true. His father-in-law, who owned the Ilium School of Optometry, who had set Billy up in practice, was a genius in his field. He told Billy to encourage people to call him Billy—because it would stick in their memories. It would also make him seem slightly magical, since there weren’t any other grown Billys around. It also compelled people to think of him as a friend right away.
Somewhere in there was an awful scene, with people expressing disgust for Billy and the woman, and Billy found himself out in his automobile, trying to 􏰀nd the steering wheel.
The main thing now was to 􏰀nd the steering wheel. At 􏰀rst, Billy windmilled his arms, hoping to 􏰀nd it by luck. When that didn’t work, he became methodical, working in such a way that the wheel could not possibly escape him. He placed himself hard against the left-hand door, searched every square inch of the area before him. When he failed to 􏰀nd the wheel, he moved over six inches, and searched again. Amazingly, he was eventually hard against the right-hand door, without having found the wheel. He concluded that somebody had stolen it. This angered him as he passed out.
He was in the back seat of his car, which was why he couldn’t 􏰀nd the steering wheel.
Now somebody was shaking Billy awake. Billy still felt drunk, was still angered by the stolen steering wheel. He was back in World War Two again, behind the German lines. The person who was shaking him was Roland Weary. Weary had gathered the front of Billy’s 􏰀eld jacket into his hands. He banged Billy against a tree, then pulled him away from it, 􏰁ung him in the direction he was supposed to take under his own power.
Billy stopped, shook his head. “You go on,” he said. “What?”
“You guys go on without me. I’m all right.”
  
“You’re what?”
“I’m O.K.”
“Jesus—I’d hate to see somebody sick,” said Weary, through 􏰀ve layers of humid scarf from home. Billy had never seen Weary’s face. He had tried to imagine it one time, had imagined a toad in a fishbowl.
Weary kicked and shoved Billy for a quarter of a mile. The scouts were waiting between the banks of a frozen creek. They had heard the dog. They had heard men calling back and forth, too—calling like hunters who had a pretty good idea of where their quarry was.
The banks of the creek were high enough to allow the scouts to stand without being seen. Billy staggered down the bank ridiculously. After him came Weary, clanking and clinking and tinkling and hot.
“Here he is, boys,” said Weary. “He don’t want to live, but he’s gonna live anyway. When he gets out of this, by God, he’s gonna owe his life to the Three Musketeers.” This was the 􏰀rst the scouts had heard that Weary thought of himself and them as the Three Musketeers.
Billy Pilgrim, there in the creekbed, thought he, Billy Pilgrim, was turning to steam painlessly. If everybody would leave him alone for just a little while, he thought, he wouldn’t cause anybody any more trouble. He would turn to steam and 􏰁oat up among the treetops.
Somewhere the big dog barked again. With the help of fear and echoes and winter silences, that dog had a voice like a big bronze gong.
Roland Weary, eighteen years old, insinuated himself between the scouts, draped a heavy arm around the shoulder of each. “So what do the Three Musketeers do now?” he
said.Billy Pilgrim was having a delightful hallucination. He was wearing dry, warm, white sweatsocks, and he was skating on a ballroom 􏰁oor. Thousands cheered. This wasn’t time-travel. It had never happened, never would happen. It was the craziness of a dying young man with his shoes full of snow.
One scout hung his head, let spit fall from his lips. The other did the same. They studied the in􏰀nitesimal e􏰃ects of spit on snow and history. They were small, graceful people. They had been behind German lines before many times—living like woods creatures, living from moment to moment in useful terror, thinking brainlessly with their spinal cords.
Now they twisted out from under Weary’s loving arms. They told Weary that he and Billy had better 􏰀nd somebody to surrender to. The scouts weren’t going to wait for them anymore.
And they ditched Weary and Billy in the creek-bed.
 
Billy Pilgrim went on skating, doing tricks in sweatsocks, tricks that most people would consider impossible—making turns, stopping on a dime and so on. The cheering went on, but its tone was altered as the hallucination gave way to time-travel.
Billy stopped skating, found himself at a lectern in a Chinese restaurant in Ilium, New York, on an early afternoon in the autumn of 1957. He was receiving a standing ovation from the Lions Club. He had just been elected President, and it was necessary that he speak. He was scared sti􏰃, thought a ghastly mistake had been made. All those prosperous, solid men out there would discover now that they had elected a ludicrous waif. They would hear his reedy voice, the one he’d had in the war. He swallowed, knew that all he had for a voice box was a little whistle cut from a willow switch. Worse—he had nothing to say. The crowd quieted down. Everybody was pink and beaming.
Billy opened his mouth, and out came a deep, resonant tone. His voice was a gorgeous instrument. It told jokes which brought down the house. It grew serious, told jokes again, and ended on a note of humility. The explanation of the miracle was this: Billy had taken a course in public speaking.
And then he was back in the bed of the frozen creek again. Roland Weary was about to beat the living shit out of him.
•••
Weary was 􏰀lled with a tragic wrath. He had been ditched again. He stu􏰃ed his pistol into its holster. He slipped his knife into its scabbard. Its triangular blade and blood gutters on all three faces. And then he shook Billy hard, rattled his skeleton, slammed him against a bank.
Weary barked and whimpered through his layers of scarf from home. He spoke unintelligibly of the sacri􏰀ces he had made on Billy’s behalf. He dilated upon the piety and heroism of “The Three Musketeers,” portrayed, in the most glowing and impassioned hues, their virtue and magnanimity, the imperishable honor they acquired for themselves, and the great services they rendered to Christianity.
It was entirely Billy’s fault that this 􏰀ghting organization no longer existed, Weary felt, and Billy was going to pay. Weary socked Billy a good one on the side of his jaw, knocked Billy away from the bank and onto the snow-covered ice of the creek. Billy was down on all fours on the ice, and Weary kicked him in the ribs, rolled him over on his side. Billy tried to form himself into a ball.
“You shouldn’t even be in the Army,” said Weary.
Billy was involuntarily making convulsive sounds that were a lot like laughter. “You think it’s funny, huh?” Weary inquired. He walked around to Billy’s back. Billy’s jacket and shirt and undershirt had been hauled up around his shoulders by the violence, so his back was naked. There, inches from the tips of Weary’s combat boots, were the pitiful buttons of Billy’s spine.
Weary drew back his right boot, aimed a kick at the spine, at the tube which had so many of Billy’s important wires in it. Weary was going to break that tube.

But then Weary saw that he had an audience. Five German soldiers and a police dog on a leash were looking down into the bed of the creek. The soldiers’ blue eyes were 􏰀lled with a bleary civilian curiosity as to why one American would try to murder another one so far from home, and why the victim should laugh.

3
THE GERMANS AND THE DOG were engaged in a military operation which had an amusingly
self-explanatory name, a human enterprise which is seldom described in detail, whose name alone, when reported as news or history, gives many war enthusiasts a sort of post-coital satisfaction. It is, in the imagination of combat’s fans, the divinely listless loveplay that follows the orgasm of victory. It is called “mopping up.”
The dog, who had sounded so ferocious in the winter distances, was a female German shepherd. She was shivering. Her tail was between her legs. She had been borrowed that morning from a farmer. She had never been to war before. She had no idea what game was being played. Her name was Princess.
•••
Two of the Germans were boys in their early teens. Two were ramshackle old men —droolers as toothless as carp. They were irregulars, armed and clothed fragmentarily with junk taken from real soldiers who were newly dead. So it goes. They were farmers from just across the German border, not far away.
Their commander was a middle-aged corporal—red-eyed, scrawny, tough as dried beef, sick of war. He had been wounded four times—and patched up, and sent back to war. He was a very good soldier—about to quit, about to 􏰀nd somebody to surrender to. His bandy legs were thrust into golden cavalry boots which he had taken from a dead Hungarian colonel on the Russian front. So it goes.
Those boots were almost all he owned in this world. They were his home. An anecdote: One time a recruit was watching him bone and wax those golden boots, and he held one up to the recruit and said, “If you look in there deeply enough, you’ll see Adam and Eve.”
Billy Pilgrim had not heard this anecdote. But, lying on the black ice there, Billy stared into the patina of the corporal’s boots, saw Adam and Eve in the golden depths. They were naked. They were so innocent, so vulnerable, so eager to behave decently. Billy Pilgrim loved them.
Next to the golden boots were a pair of feet which were swaddled in rags. They were crisscrossed by canvas straps, were shod with hinged wooden clogs. Billy looked up at the face that went with the clogs. It was the face of a blond angel, of a 􏰀fteen-year- old boy.
  The boy was as beautiful as Eve.
 
Billy was helped to his feet by the lovely boy, by the heavenly androgyne. And the others came forward to dust the snow off Billy, and then they searched him for weapons. He didn’t have any. The most dangerous thing they found on his person was a two-inch pencil stub.
Three ino􏰃ensive bangs came from far away. They came from German ri􏰁es. The two scouts who had ditched Billy and Weary had just been shot. They had been lying in ambush for Germans. They had been discovered and shot from behind. Now they were dying in the snow, feeling nothing, turning the snow to the color of raspberry sherbet. So it goes. So Roland Weary was the last of the Three Musketeers.
And Weary, bug-eyed with terror, was being disarmed. The corporal gave Weary’s pistol to the pretty boy. He marveled at Weary’s cruel trench knife, said in German that Weary would no doubt like to use the knife on him, to tear his face o􏰃 with the spiked knuckles, to stick the blade into his belly or throat. He spoke no English, and Billy and Weary understood no German.
“Nice playthings you have,” the corporal told Weary, and he handed the knife to an old man. “Isn’t that a pretty thing? Hmmm?”
He tore open Weary’s overcoat and blouse. Brass buttons 􏰁ew like popcorn. The corporal reached into Weary’s gaping bosom as though he meant to tear out his pounding heart, but he brought out Weary’s bulletproof Bible instead.
A bullet-proof Bible is a Bible small enough to be slipped into a soldier’s breast pocket, over his heart. It is sheathed in steel.
The corporal found the dirty picture of the woman and the pony in Weary’s hip pocket. “What a lucky pony, eh?” he said. “Hmmmm? Hmmmm? Don’t you wish you were that pony?” He handed the picture to the other old man. “Spoils of war! It’s yours, all yours, you lucky lad.”
Then he made Weary sit down in the snow and take o􏰃 his combat boots, which he gave to the beautiful boy. He gave Weary the boy’s clogs. So Weary and Billy were both without decent military footwear now, and they had to walk for miles and miles, with Weary’s clogs clacking, with Billy bobbing up-and-down, up-and-down, crashing into Weary from time to time.
“Excuse me,” Billy would say, or “I beg your pardon.”
They were brought at last to a stone cottage at a fork in the road. It was a collecting point for prisoners of war. Billy and Weary were taken inside, where it was warm and smoky. There was a 􏰀re sizzling and popping in the 􏰀replace. The fuel was furniture. There were about twenty other Americans in there, sitting on the 􏰁oor with their backs to the wall, staring into the 􏰁ames—thinking whatever there was to think, which was zero.
Nobody talked. Nobody had any good war stories to tell.
Billy and Weary found places for themselves, and Billy went to sleep with his head on the shoulder of an unprotesting captain. The captain was a chaplain. He was a rabbi.

He had been shot through the hand.
Billy traveled in time, opened his eyes, found himself staring into the glass eyes of a jade green mechanical owl. The owl was hanging upside down from a rod of stainless steel. The owl was Billy’s optometer in his o􏰂ce in Ilium. An optometer is an instrument for measuring refractive errors in eyes—in order that corrective lenses may be prescribed.
Billy had fallen asleep while examining a female patient who was in a chair on the other side of the owl. He had fallen asleep at work before. It had been funny at 􏰀rst. Now Billy was starting to get worried about it, about his mind in general. He tried to remember how old he was, couldn’t. He tried to remember what year it was. He couldn’t remember that, either.
“Doctor—” said the patient tentatively. “Hm?” he said.
“You’re so quiet.”
“Sorry.”
“You were talking away there—and then you got so quiet.” “Um.”
“You see something terrible?”
“Terrible?”
“Some disease in my eyes?”
“No, no,” said Billy, wanting to doze again. “Your eyes are 􏰀ne. You just need glasses for reading.” He told her to go across the corridor—to see the wide selection of frames there.
When she was gone, Billy opened the drapes and was no wiser as to what was outside. The view was still blocked by a venetian blind, which he hoisted clatteringly. Bright sunlight came crashing in. There were thousands of parked automobiles out there, twinkling on a vast lake of blacktop. Billy’s o􏰂ce was part of a suburban shopping center.
Right outside the window was Billy’s own Cadillac El Dorado Coupe de Ville. He read the stickers on the bumper. “Visit Ausable Chasm,” said one. “Support Your Police Department,” said another. There was a third. “Impeach Earl Warren,” it said. The stickers about the police and Earl Warren were gifts from Billy’s father-in-law, a member of the John Birch Society. The date on the license plate was 1967, which would make Billy Pilgrim forty-four years old. He asked himself this: “Where have all the years gone?”
  Billy turned his attention to his desk. There was an open copy of The Review of

Optometry there. It was opened to an editorial, which Billy now read, his lips moving slightly.
What happens in 1968 will rule the fate of European optometrists for at least 50 years! Billy read. With this warning, Jean Thiriart, Secretary of the National Union of Belgium Opticians, is pressing for formation of a “European Optometry Society.” The alternatives, he says, will be the obtaining of professional status, or, by 1971, reduction to the role of spectacle-sellers.
Billy Pilgrim tried hard to care.
A siren went o􏰃, scared the hell out of him. He was expecting World War Three at any time. The siren was simply announcing high noon. It was housed in a cupola atop a firehouse across the street from Billy’s office.
Billy closed his eyes. When he opened them, he was back in World War Two again. His head was on the wounded rabbi’s shoulder. A German was kicking his feet, telling him to wake up, that it was time to move on.
•••
The Americans, with Billy among them, formed a fools’ parade on the road outside.
There was a photographer present, a German war correspondent with a Leica. He took pictures of Billy’s and Roland Weary’s feet. The picture was widely published two days later as heartening evidence of how miserably equipped the American Army often was, despite its reputation for being rich.
The photographer wanted something more lively, though, a picture of an actual capture. So the guards staged one for him. They threw Billy into shrubbery. When Billy came out of the shrubbery, his face wreathed in goofy good will, they menaced him with their machine pistols, as though they were capturing him then.
Billy’s smile as he came out of the shrubbery was at least as peculiar as Mona Lisa’s, for he was simultaneously on foot in Germany in 1944 and riding his Cadillac in 1967. Germany dropped away, and 1967 became bright and clear, free of interference from any other time. Billy was on his way to a Lions Club luncheon meeting. It was a hot August, but Billy’s car was air-conditioned. He was stopped by a signal in the middle of Ilium’s black ghetto. The people who lived here hated it so much that they had burned down a lot of it a month before. It was all they had, and they’d wrecked it. The neighborhood reminded Billy of some of the towns he had seen in the war. The curbs and sidewalks were crushed in many places, showing where the National Guard tanks and halftracks had been.
“Blood brother,” said a message written in pink paint on the side of a shattered grocery store.
  There was a tap on Billy’s car window. A black man was out there. He wanted to

talk about something. The light had changed. Billy did the simplest thing. He drove on.
 Billy drove through a scene of even greater desolation. It looked like Dresden after it was 􏰀re-bombed—like the surface of the moon. The house where Billy had grown up used to be somewhere in what was so empty now. This was urban renewal. A new Ilium Government Center and a Pavilion of the Arts and a Peace Lagoon and high-rise apartment buildings were going up here soon.
That was all right with Billy Pilgrim.
The speaker at the Lions Club meeting was a major in the Marines. He said that Americans had no choice but to keep 􏰀ghting in Vietnam until they achieved victory or until the Communists realized that they could not force their way of life on weak countries. The major had been there on two separate tours of duty. He told of many terrible and many wonderful things he had seen. He was in favor of increased bombings, of bombing North Vietnam back into the Stone Age, if it refused to see reason.
Billy was not moved to protest the bombing of North Vietnam, did not shudder about the hideous things he himself had seen bombing do. He was simply having lunch with the Lions Club, of which he was past president now.
Billy had a framed prayer on his o􏰂ce wall which expressed his method for keeping going, even though he was unenthusiastic about living. A lot of patients who saw the prayer on Billy’s wall told him that it helped them to keep going, too. It went like this:
GOD GRANT ME
THE SERENITY TO ACCEPT THE THINGS I CANNOT CHANGE, COURAGE
TO CHANGE THE THINGS I CAN, AND WISDOM ALWAYS
TO TELL THE DIFFERENCE.
Among the things Billy Pilgrim could not change were the past, the present, and the future.
Now he was being introduced to the Marine major. The person who was performing the introduction was telling the major that Billy was a veteran, and that Billy had a son
    
who was a sergeant in the Green Berets—in Vietnam.
The major told Billy that the Green Berets were doing a great job, and that he should be proud of his son.
“I am. I certainly am,” said Billy Pilgrim.
•••
He went home for a nap after lunch. He was under doctor’s orders to take a nap every day. The doctor hoped that this would relieve a complaint that Billy had: Every so often, for no apparent reason, Billy Pilgrim would 􏰀nd himself weeping. Nobody had ever caught Billy doing it. Only the doctor knew. It was an extremely quiet thing Billy did, and not very moist.
Billy owned a lovely Georgian home in Ilium. He was rich as Croesus, something he had never expected to be, not in a million years. He had 􏰀ve other optometrists working for him in the shopping plaza location, and netted over sixty thousand dollars a year. In addition, he owned a 􏰀fth of the new Holiday Inn out on Route 54, and half of three Tastee-Freeze stands. Tastee-Freeze was a sort of frozen custard. It gave all the pleasure that ice cream could give, without the stiffness and bitter coldness of ice cream.
Billy’s home was empty. His daughter Barbara was about to get married, and she and his wife had gone downtown to pick out patterns for her crystal and silverware. There was a note saying so on the kitchen table. There were no servants. People just weren’t interested in careers in domestic service anymore. There wasn’t a dog, either.
There used to be a dog named Spot, but he died. So it goes. Billy had liked Spot a lot, and Spot had liked him.
Billy went up the carpeted stairway and into his and his wife’s bedroom. The room had 􏰁owered wallpaper. There was a double bed with a clock-radio on a table beside it. Also on the table were controls for the electric blanket, and a switch to turn on a gentle vibrator which was bolted to the springs of the box mattress. The trade name of the vibrator was “Magic Fingers.” The vibrator was the doctor’s idea, too.
Billy took o􏰃 his tri-focals and his coat and his necktie and his shoes, and he closed the venetian blinds and then the drapes, and he lay down on the outside of the coverlet. But sleep would not come. Tears came instead. They seeped. Billy turned on the Magic Fingers, and he was jiggled as he wept.
•••
The doorchimes rang. Billy got o􏰃 the bed and looked down through a window at the front doorstep, to see if somebody important had come to call. There was a crippled man down there, as spastic in space as Billy Pilgrim was in time. Convulsions made the
   
man dance 􏰁appingly all the time, made him change his expressions, too, as though he were trying to imitate various famous movie stars.
Another cripple was ringing a doorbell across the street. He was on crutches. He had only one leg. He was so jammed between his crutches that his shoulders hid his ears.
Billy knew what the cripples were up to: They were selling subscriptions to magazines that would never come. People subscribed to them because the salesmen were so pitiful. Billy had heard about this racket from a speaker at the Lions Club two weeks before—a man from the Better Business Bureau. The man said that anybody who saw cripples working a neighborhood for magazine subscriptions should call the police.
Billy looked down the street, saw a new Buick Riviera parked about half a block away. There was a man in it, and Billy assumed correctly that he was the man who had hired the cripples to do this thing. Billy went on weeping as he contemplated the cripples and their boss. His doorchimes clanged hellishly.
He closed his eyes, and opened them again. He was still weeping, but he was back in Luxembourg again. He was marching with a lot of other prisoners. It was a winter wind that was bringing tears to his eyes.
Ever since Billy had been thrown into shrubbery for the sake of a picture, he had been seeing Saint Elmo’s 􏰀re, a sort of electronic radiance around the heads of his companions and captors. It was in the treetops and on the rooftops of Luxembourg, too. It was beautiful.
Billy was marching with his hands on top of his head, and so were all the other Americans. Billy was bobbing up-and-down, up-and-down. Now he crashed into Roland Weary accidentally. “I beg your pardon,” he said.
Weary’s eyes were tearful also. Weary was crying because of horrible pains in his feet. The hinged clogs were transforming his feet into blood puddings.
At each road intersection Billy’s group was joined by more Americans with their hands on top of their haloed heads. Billy had smiles for them all. They were moving like water, downhill all the time, and they 􏰁owed at last to a main highway on a valley’s 􏰁oor. Through the valley 􏰁owed a Mississippi of humiliated Americans. Tens of thousands of Americans shu􏰄ed eastward, their hands clasped on top of their heads. They sighed and groaned.
Billy and his group joined the river of humiliation, and the late afternoon sun came out from the clouds. The Americans didn’t have the road to themselves. The westbound lane boiled and boomed with vehicles which were rushing German reserves to the front. The reserves were violent, windburned, bristly men. They had teeth like piano keys.
They were festooned with machine-gun belts, smoked cigars and guzzled booze. They took wol􏰀sh bites from sausages, patted their horny palms with potato-masher
  
grenades.
One soldier in black was having a drunk hero’s picnic all by himself on top of a tank. He spit on the Americans. The spit hit Roland Weary’s shoulder, gave Weary a fourragère of snot and blutwurst and tobacco juice and Schnapps.
•••
Billy found the afternoon stingingly exciting. There was so much to see—dragon’s teeth, killing machines, corpses with bare feet that were blue and ivory. So it goes.
Bobbing up-and-down, up-and-down, Billy beamed lovingly at a bright lavender farmhouse that had been spattered with machine-gun bullets. Standing in its cockeyed doorway was a German colonel. With him was his unpainted whore.
Billy crashed into Weary’s shoulder, and Weary cried out sobbingly. “Walk right! Walk right!”
They were climbing a gentle rise now. When they reached the top, they weren’t in Luxembourg any more. They were in Germany.
A motion-picture camera was set up at the border—to record the fabulous victory. Two civilians in bearskin coats were leaning on the camera when Billy and Weary came by. They had run out of film hours ago.
One of them singled out Billy’s face for a moment, then focused at in􏰀nity again. There was a tiny plume of smoke at in􏰀nity. There was a battle there. People were dying there. So it goes.
And the sun went down, and Billy found himself bobbing in place in a railroad yard. There were rows and rows of boxcars waiting. They had brought reserves to the front. Now they were going to take prisoners into Germany’s interior.
Flashlight beams danced crazily.
The Germans sorted out the prisoners according to rank. They put sergeants with sergeants, majors with majors, and so on. A squad of full colonels was halted near Billy. One of them had double pneumonia. He had a high fever and vertigo. As the railroad yard dipped and swooped around the colonel, he tried to hold himself steady by staring into Billy’s eyes.
The colonel coughed and coughed, and then he said to Billy, “You one of my boys?” This was a man who had lost an entire regiment, about forty-􏰀ve hundred men—a lot of them children, actually. Billy didn’t reply. The question made no sense.
“What was your out􏰀t?” said the colonel. He coughed and coughed. Every time he inhaled his lungs rattled like greasy paper bags.
Billy couldn’t remember the outfit he was from. “You from the Four-fifty-first?”
  
“Four-fifty-first what?” said Billy.
There was a silence. “Infantry regiment,” said the colonel at last. “Oh,” said Billy Pilgrim.
There was another long silence, with the colonel dying and dying, drowning where he stood. And then he cried out wetly, “It’s me, boys! It’s Wild Bob!” That is what he had always wanted his troops to call him: “Wild Bob.”
None of the people who could hear him were actually from his regiment, except for Roland Weary, and Weary wasn’t listening. All Weary could think of was the agony in his own feet.
But the colonel imagined that he was addressing his beloved troops for the last time, and he told them that they had nothing to be ashamed of, that there were dead Germans all over the battle􏰀eld who wished to God that they had never heard of the Four-􏰀fty- 􏰀rst. He said that after the war he was going to have a regimental reunion in his home town, which was Cody, Wyoming. He was going to barbecue whole steers.
He said all this while staring into Billy’s eyes. He made the inside of poor Billy’s skull echo with balderdash. “God be with you, boys!” he said, and that echoed and echoed. And then he said, “If you’re ever in Cody, Wyoming, just ask for Wild Bob!”
I was there. So was my old war buddy, Bernard V. O’Hare.
Billy Pilgrim was packed into a boxcar with many other privates. He and Roland Weary were separated. Weary was packed into another car in the same train.
There were narrow ventilators at the corners of the car, under the eaves. Billy stood by one of these, and, as the crowd pressed against him, he climbed part way up a diagonal corner brace to make more room. This placed his eyes on a level with the ventilator, so he could see another train about ten yards away.
Germans were writing on the cars with blue chalk—the number of persons in each car, their rank, their nationality, the date on which they had been put aboard. Other Germans were securing the hasps on the car doors with wire and spikes and other trackside trash. Billy could hear somebody writing on his car, too, but he couldn’t see who was doing it.
Most of the privates on Billy’s car were very young—at the end of childhood. But crammed into the corner with Billy was a former hobo who was forty years old.
“I been hungrier than this,” the hobo told Billy. “I been in worse places than this. This ain’t so bad.”
A man in a boxcar across the way called out through the ventilator that a man had just died in there. So it goes. There were four guards who heard him. They weren’t
   
excited by the news.
“Yo, yo,” said one, nodding dreamily. “Yo, yo.”
And the guards didn’t open the car with the dead man in it. They opened the next car instead, and Billy Pilgrim was enchanted by what was in there. It was like heaven. There was candlelight, and there were bunks with quilts and blankets heaped on them. There was a cannonball stove with a steaming co􏰃eepot on top. There was a table with a bottle of wine and a loaf of bread and a sausage on it. There were four bowls of soup.
There were pictures of castles and lakes and pretty girls on the walls. This was the rolling home of the railroad guards, men whose business it was to be forever guarding freight rolling from here to there. The four guards went inside and closed the door.
A little while later they came out smoking cigars, talking contentedly in the mellow lower register of the German language. One of them saw Billy’s face at the ventilator. He wagged a finger at him in affectionate warning, telling him to be a good boy.
The Americans across the way told the guards again about the dead man on their car. The guards got a stretcher out of their own cozy car, opened the dead man’s car and went inside. The dead man’s car wasn’t crowded at all. There were just six live colonels in there—and one dead one.
The Germans carried the corpse out. The corpse was Wild Bob. So it goes.
During the night, some of the locomotives began to tootle to one another, and then to move. The locomotive and the last car of each train were marked with a striped banner of orange and black, indicating that the train was not fair game for air-planes— that it was carrying prisoners of war.
•••
The war was nearly over. The locomotives began to move east in late December. The war would end in May. German prisons everywhere were absolutely full, and there was no longer any food for the prisoners to eat, and no longer any fuel to keep them warm. And yet—here came more prisoners.
Billy Pilgrim’s train, the longest train of all, did not move for two days.
“This ain’t bad,” the hobo told Billy on the second day. “This ain’t nothing at all.”
Billy looked out through the ventilator. The railroad yard was a desert now, except for a hospital train marked with red crosses—on a siding far, far away. Its locomotive whistled. The locomotive of Billy Pilgrim’s train whistled back. They were saying, “Hello.”
Even though Billy’s train wasn’t moving, its boxcars were kept locked tight. Nobody was to get o􏰃 until the 􏰀nal destination. To the guards who walked up and down
   
outside, each car became a single organism which ate and drank and excreted through its ventilators. It talked or sometimes yelled through its ventilators, too. In went water and loaves of blackbread and sausage and cheese, and out came shit and piss and language.
Human beings in there were excreting into steel helmets which were passed to the people at the ventilators, who dumped them. Billy was a dumper. The human beings also passed canteens, which guards would 􏰀ll with water. When food came in, the human beings were quiet and trusting and beautiful. They shared.
Human beings in there took turns standing or lying down. The legs of those who stood were like fence posts driven into a warm, squirming, farting, sighing earth. The queer earth was a mosaic of sleepers who nestled like spoons.
Now the train began to creep eastward.
Somewhere in there was Christmas. Billy Pilgrim nestled like a spoon with the hobo on Christmas night, and he fell asleep, and he traveled in time to 1967 again—to the night he was kidnapped by a flying saucer from Tralfamadore.
 
4
BILLY PILGRIM could not sleep on his daughter’s wedding night. He was forty-four. The
wedding had taken place that afternoon in a gaily striped tent in Billy’s backyard. The stripes were orange and black.
Billy and his wife, Valencia, nestled like spoons in their big double bed. They were jiggled by Magic Fingers. Valencia didn’t need to be jiggled to sleep. Valencia was snoring like a bandsaw. The poor woman didn’t have ovaries or a uterus any more. They had been removed by a surgeon—by one of Billy’s partners in the new Holiday
Inn. There was a full moon.
Billy got out of bed in the moonlight. He felt spooky and luminous, felt as though he were wrapped in cool fur that was full of static electricity. He looked down at his bare feet. They were ivory and blue.
Billy now shu􏰄ed down his upstairs hallway, knowing he was about to be kidnapped by a 􏰁ying saucer. The hallway was zebra-striped with darkness and moonlight. The moonlight came into the hallway through doorways of the empty rooms of Billy’s two children, children no more. They were gone forever. Billy was guided by dread and the lack of dread. Dread told him when to stop. Lack of it told him when to move again. He stopped.
He went into his daughter’s room. Her drawers were dumped. Her closet was empty. Heaped in the middle of her room were all the possessions she could not take on a honeymoon. She had a Princess telephone extension all her own—on her windowsill. Its tiny night light stared at Billy. And then it rang.
Billy answered. There was a drunk on the other end. Billy could almost smell his breath—mustard gas and roses. It was a wrong number. Billy hung up. There was a soft drink bottle on the windowsill. Its label boasted that it contained no nourishment whatsoever.
Billy Pilgrim padded downstairs on his blue and ivory feet. He went into the kitchen, where the moonlight called his attention to a half bottle of champagne on the kitchen table, all that was left from the reception in the tent. Somebody had stoppered it again. “Drink me,” it seemed to say.
So Billy uncorked it with his thumbs. It didn’t make a pop. The champagne was dead. So it goes.
   
Billy looked at the clock on the gas stove. He had an hour to kill before the saucer came. He went into the living room, swinging the bottle like a dinner bell, turned on the television. He came slightly unstuck in time, saw the late movie backwards, then forwards again. It was a movie about American bombers in the Second World War and the gallant men who flew them. Seen backwards by Billy, the story went like this:
American planes, full of holes and wounded men and corpses took o􏰃 backwards from an air􏰀eld in England. Over France, a few German 􏰀ghter planes 􏰁ew at them backwards, sucked bullets and shell fragments from some of the planes and crewmen. They did the same for wrecked American bombers on the ground, and those planes 􏰁ew up backwards to join the formation.
The formation 􏰁ew backwards over a German city that was in 􏰁ames. The bombers opened their bomb bay doors, exerted a miraculous magnetism which shrunk the 􏰀res, gathered them into cylindrical steel containers, and lifted the containers into the bellies of the planes. The containers were stored neatly in racks. The Germans below had miraculous devices of their own, which were long steel tubes. They used them to suck more fragments from the crewmen and planes. But there were still a few wounded Americans, though, and some of the bombers were in bad repair. Over France, though, German fighters came up again, made everything and everybody as good as new.
When the bombers got back to their base, the steel cylinders were taken from the racks and shipped back to the United States of America, where factories were operating night and day, dismantling the cylinders, separating the dangerous contents into minerals. Touchingly, it was mainly women who did this work. The minerals were then shipped to specialists in remote areas. It was their business to put them into the ground, to hide them cleverly, so they would never hurt anybody ever again.
The American 􏰁iers turned in their uniforms, became high school kids. And Hitler turned into a baby, Billy Pilgrim supposed. That wasn’t in the movie. Billy was extrapolating. Everybody turned into a baby, and all humanity, without exception, conspired biologically to produce two perfect people named Adam and Eve, he supposed.
Billy saw the war movies backwards then forwards—and then it was time to go out into his backyard to meet the 􏰁ying saucer. Out he went, his blue and ivory feet crushing the wet salad of the lawn. He stopped, took a swig of the dead champagne. It was like 7-Up. He would not raise his eyes to the sky, though he knew there was a 􏰁ying saucer from Tralfamadore up there. He would see it soon enough, inside and out, and he would see, too, where it came from soon enough—soon enough.
Overhead he heard the cry of what might have been a melodious owl, but it wasn’t a melodious owl. It was a 􏰁ying saucer from Tralfamadore, navigating in both space and time, therefore seeming to Billy Pilgrim to have come from nowhere all at once.
  
Somewhere a big dog barked. •••
The saucer was one hundred feet in diameter, with portholes around its rim. The light from the portholes was a pulsing purple. The only noise it made was the owl song. It came down to hover over Billy, and to enclose him in a cylinder of pulsing purple light. Now there was the sound of a seeming kiss as an airtight hatch in the bottom of the saucer was opened. Down snaked a ladder that was outlined in pretty lights like a Ferris wheel.
Billy’s will was paralyzed by a zap gun aimed at him from one of the portholes. It became imperative that he take hold of the bottom rung of the sinuous ladder, which he did. The rung was electri􏰀ed, so that Billy’s hands locked onto it hard. He was hauled into the airlock, and machinery closed the bottom door. Only then did the ladder, wound onto a reel in the airlock, let him go. Only then did Billy’s brain start working again.
There were two peepholes inside the airlock—with yellow eyes pressed to them. There was a speaker on the wall. The Tralfamadorians had no voice boxes. They communicated telepathically. They were able to talk to Billy by means of a computer and a sort of electric organ which made every Earthling speech sound.
“Welcome aboard, Mr. Pilgrim,” said the loudspeaker. “Any questions?”
Billy licked his lips, thought a while, inquired at last: “Why me?”
“That is a very Earthling question to ask, Mr. Pilgrim. Why you? Why us for that matter? Why anything? Because this moment simply is. Have you ever seen bugs trapped in amber?”
“Yes.” Billy, in fact, had a paperweight in his o􏰂ce which was a blob of polished amber with three ladybugs embedded in it.
“Well, here we are, Mr. Pilgrim, trapped in the amber of this moment. There is no why.”
They introduced an anesthetic into Billy’s atmosphere now, put him to sleep. They carried him to a cabin where he was strapped to a yellow Barca-Lounger which they had stolen from a Sears Roebuck warehouse. The hold of the saucer was crammed with other stolen merchandise, which would be used to furnish Billy’s arti􏰀cial habitat in a zoo on Tralfamadore.
The terri􏰀c acceleration of the saucer as it left Earth twisted Billy’s slumbering body, distorted his face, dislodged him in time, sent him back to the war.
When he regained consciousness, he wasn’t on the 􏰁ying saucer. He was in a boxcar crossing Germany again.
  Some people were rising from the 􏰁oor of the car, and others were lying down.

Billy planned to lie down, too. It would be lovely to sleep. It was black in the car, and black outside the car, which seemed to be going about two miles an hour. The car never seemed to go any faster than that. It was a long time between clicks, between joints in the track. There would be a click, and then a year would go by, and then there would be another click.
The train often stopped to let really important trains bawl and hurtle by. Another thing it did was stop on sidings near prisons, leaving a few cars there. It was creeping across all of Germany, growing shorter all the time.
And Billy let himself down oh so gradually now, hanging onto the diagonal cross- brace in the corner in order to make himself seem nearly weightless to those he was joining on the 􏰁oor. He knew it was important that he make himself nearly ghostlike when lying down. He had forgotten why, but a reminder soon came.
“Pilgrim—” said a person he was about to nestle with, “is that you?”
Billy didn’t say anything, but nestled very politely, closed his eyes.
“God damn it,” said the person. “That is you, isn’t it?” He sat up and explored Billy rudely with his hands. “It’s you, all right. Get the hell out of here.”
Now Billy sat up, too—wretched, close to tears.
“Get out of here! I want to sleep!”
“Shut up,” said somebody else.
“I’ll shut up when Pilgrim gets away from here.”
So Billy stood up again, clung to the cross-brace. “Where can I sleep?” he asked quietly.
“Not with me.”
“Not with me, you son of a bitch,” said somebody else. “You yell. You kick.” “I do?”
“You’re God damn right you do. And whimper.”
“I do?”
“Keep the hell away from here, Pilgrim.” And now there was an acrimonious madrigal, with parts sung in all quarters of the car. Nearly everybody, seemingly, had an atrocity story of something Billy Pilgrim had done to him in his sleep. Everybody told Billy Pilgrim to keep the hell away.
So Billy Pilgrim had to sleep standing up, or not sleep at all. And food had stopped coming in through the ventilators, and the days and nights were colder all the time.
   
On the eighth day, the forty-year-old hobo said to Billy, “This ain’t bad. I can be comfortable anywhere.”
“You can?” said Billy.
On the ninth day, the hobo died. So it goes. His last words were, “You think this is bad? This ain’t bad.”
There was something about death and the ninth day. There was a death on the ninth day in the car ahead of Billy’s too. Roland Weary died—of gangrene that had started in his mangled feet. So it goes.
Weary, in his nearly continuous delirium, told again and again of the Three Musketeers, acknowledged that he was dying, gave many messages to be delivered to his family in Pittsburgh. Above all, he wanted to be avenged, so he said again and again the name of the person who had killed him. Everyone on the car learned the lesson well.
“Who killed me?” he would ask.
And everybody knew the answer, which was this: “Billy Pilgrim.”
Listen—on the tenth night the peg was pulled out of the hasp on Billy’s boxcar door, and the door was opened. Billy Pilgrim was lying at an angle on the corner-brace, self- cruci􏰀ed, holding himself there with a blue and ivory claw hooked over the sill of the ventilator. Billy coughed when the door was opened, and when he coughed he shit thin gruel. This was in accordance with the Third Law of Motion according to Sir Isaac Newton. This law tells us that for every action there is a reaction which is equal and opposite in direction.
This can be useful in rocketry.
•••
The train had arrived on a siding by a prison which was originally constructed as an extermination camp for Russian prisoners of war.
The guards peeked inside Billy’s car owlishly, cooed calmingly. They had never dealt with Americans before, but they surely understood this general sort of freight. They knew that it was essentially a liquid which could be induced to 􏰁ow slowly toward cooing and light. It was nighttime.
The only light outside came from a single bulb which hung from a pole—high and far away. All was quiet outside, except for the guards, who cooed like doves. And the liquid began to flow. Gobs of it built up in the doorway, plopped to the ground.
Billy was the next-to-last human being to reach the door. The hobo was last. The hobo could not 􏰁ow, could not plop. He wasn’t liquid anymore. He was stone. So it goes.
   
Billy didn’t want to drop from the car to the ground. He sincerely believed that he would shatter like glass. So the guards helped him down, cooing still. They set him down facing the train. It was such a dinky train now.
There was a locomotive, a tender, and three little boxcars. The last boxcar was the railroad guards’ heaven on wheels. Again—in that heaven on wheels—the table was set. Dinner was served.
At the base of the pole from which the light bulb hung were three seeming haystacks. The Americans were wheedled and teased over to those three stacks, which weren’t hay after all. They were overcoats taken from prisoners who were dead. So it
goes.It was the guards’ 􏰀rmly expressed wish that every American without an overcoat should take one. The coats were cemented together with ice, so the guards used their bayonets as ice picks, pricking free collars and hems and sleeves and so on, then peeling o􏰃 coats and handing them out at random. The coats were sti􏰃 and dome-shaped, having conformed to their piles.
The coat that Billy Pilgrim got had been crumpled and frozen in such a way, and was so small, that it appeared to be not a coat but a sort of large black, three-cornered hat. There were gummy stains on it, too, like crankcase drainings or old strawberry jam. There seemed to be a dead, furry animal frozen to it. The animal was in fact the coat’s fur collar.
Billy glanced dully at the coats of his neighbors. Their coats all had brass buttons or tinsel or piping or numbers or stripes or eagles or moons or stars dangling from them. They were soldiers’ coats. Billy was the only one who had a coat from a dead civilian. So it goes.
And Billy and the rest were encouraged to shu􏰄e around their dinky train and into the prison camp. There wasn’t anything warm or lively to attract them—merely long, low, narrow sheds by the thousands, with no lights inside.
Somewhere a dog barked. With the help of fear and echoes and winter silences, that dog had a voice like a big bronze gong.
Billy and the rest were wooed through gate after gate, and Billy saw his 􏰀rst Russian. The man was all alone in the night—a ragbag with a round, 􏰁at face that glowed like a radium dial.
Billy passed within a yard of him. There was barbed wire between them. The Russian did not wave or speak, but he looked directly into Billy’s soul with sweet hopefulness, as though Billy might have good news for him—news he might be too stupid to understand, but good news all the same.
  Billy blacked out as he walked through gate after gate. He came to in what he

thought might be a building on Tralfamadore. It was shrilly lit and lined with white tiles. It was on Earth, though. It was a delousing station through which all new prisoners had to pass.
Billy did as he was told, took o􏰃 his clothes. That was the 􏰀rst thing they told him to do on Tralfamadore, too.
A German measured Billy’s upper right arm with his thumb and fore􏰀nger, asked a companion what sort of an army would send a weakling like that to the front. They looked at the other American bodies now, pointed out a lot more that were nearly as bad as Billy’s.
One of the best bodies belonged to the oldest American by far, a high school teacher from Indianapolis. His name was Edgar Derby. He hadn’t been in Billy’s boxcar. He’d been in Roland Weary’s car, had cradled Weary’s head while he died. So it goes. Derby was forty-four years old. He was so old he had a son who was a marine in the Paci􏰀c theater of war.
Derby had pulled political wires to get into the army at his age. The subject he had taught in Indianapolis was Contemporary Problems in Western Civilization. He also coached the tennis team, and took very good care of his body.
Derby’s son would survive the war. Derby wouldn’t. That good body of his would be filled with holes by a firing squad in Dresden in sixty-eight days. So it goes.
The worst American body wasn’t Billy’s. The worst body belonged to a car thief from Cicero, Illinois. His name was Paul Lazzaro. He was tiny, and not only were his bones and teeth rotten, but his skin was disgusting. Lazzaro was polka-dotted all over with dime-sized scars. He had had many plagues of boils.
Lazzaro, too, had been on Roland Weary’s boxcar, and had given his word of honor to Weary that he would 􏰀nd some way to make Billy Pilgrim pay for Weary’s death. He was looking around now, wondering which naked human being was Billy.
The naked Americans took their places under many showerheads along a white-tiled wall. There were no faucets they could control. They could only wait for whatever was coming. Their penises were shriveled and their balls were retracted. Reproduction was not the main business of the evening.
An unseen hand turned a master valve. Out of the showerheads gushed scalding rain. The rain was a blowtorch that did not warm. It jazzed and jangled Billy’s skin without thawing the ice in the marrow of his long bones.
The Americans’ clothes were meanwhile passing through poison gas. Body lice and bacteria and fleas were dying by the billions. So it goes.
And Billy zoomed back in time to his infancy. He was a baby who had just been bathed by his mother. Now his mother wrapped him in a towel, carried him into a rosy
  
room that was 􏰀lled with sunshine. She unwrapped him, laid him on the tickling towel, powdered him between his legs, joked with him, patted his little jelly belly. Her palm on his little jelly belly made potching sounds.
Billy gurgled and cooed.
•••
And then Billy was a middle-aged optometrist again, playing hacker’s golf this time —on a blazing summer Sunday morning. Billy never went to church any more. He was hacking with three other optometrists. Billy was on the green in seven strokes, and it was his turn to putt.
It was an eight-foot putt and he made it. He bent over to take the ball out of the cup, and the sun went behind a cloud. Billy was momentarily dizzy. When he recovered, he wasn’t on the golf course any more. He was strapped to a yellow contour chair in a white chamber aboard a flying saucer, which was bound for Tralfamadore.
“Where am I?” said Billy Pilgrim.
“Trapped in another blob of amber, Mr. Pilgrim. We are where we have to be just now—three hundred million miles from Earth, bound for a time warp which will get us to Tralfamadore in hours rather than centuries.”
“How—how did I get here?”
“It would take another Earthling to explain it to you. Earthlings are the great explainers, explaining why this event is structured as it is, telling how other events may be achieved or avoided. I am a Tralfamadorian, seeing all time as you might see a stretch of the Rocky Mountains. All time is all time. It does not change. It does not lend itself to warnings or explanations. It simply is. Take it moment by moment, and you will find that we are all, as I’ve said before, bugs in amber.”
“You sound to me as though you don’t believe in free will,” said Billy Pilgrim.
“If I hadn’t spent so much time studying Earthlings,” said the Tralfamadorian, “I wouldn’t have any idea what was meant by ‘free will.’ I’ve visited thirty-one inhabited planets in the universe, and I have studied reports on one hundred more. Only on Earth is there any talk of free will.”
  
5
BILLY PILGRIM says that the Universe does not look like a lot of bright little dots to the
creatures from Tralfamadore. The creatures can see where each star has been and where it is going, so that the heavens are 􏰀lled with rare􏰀ed, luminous spaghetti. And Tralfamadorians don’t see human beings as two-legged creatures, either. They see them as great millepedes—”with babies’ legs at one end and old people’s legs at the other,” says Billy Pilgrim.
Billy asked for something to read on the trip to Tralfamadore. His captors had 􏰀ve million Earthling books on micro􏰀lm, but no way to project them in Billy’s cabin. They had only one actual book in English which would be placed in a Tralfamadorian museum. It was Valley of the Dolls, by Jacqueline Susann.
Billy read it, thought it was pretty good in spots. The people in it certainly had their ups and downs, ups and downs. But Billy didn’t want to read about the same ups and downs over and over again. He asked if there wasn’t, please, some other reading matter around.
“Only Tralfamadorian novels, which I’m afraid you couldn’t begin to understand,” said the speaker on the wall.
“Let me look at one anyway.”
So they sent him in several. They were little things. A dozen of them might have had
the bulk of Valley of the Dolls—with all its ups and downs, ups and downs.
Billy couldn’t read Tralfamadorian, of course, but he could at least see how the books were laid out—in brief clumps of symbols separated by stars. Billy commented that the clumps might be telegrams.
“Exactly,” said the voice.
“They are telegrams?”
“There are no telegrams on Tralfamadore. But you’re right: each clump of symbols is a brief, urgent message—describing a situation, a scene. We Tralfamadorians read them all at once, not one after the other. There isn’t any particular relationship between all the messages, except that the author has chosen them carefully, so that, when seen all at once, they produce an image of life that is beautiful and surprising and deep. There is no beginning, no middle, no end, no suspense, no moral, no causes, no e􏰃ects. What we love in our books are the depths of many marvelous moments seen all at one time.”
   
 Moments after that, the saucer entered a time warp, and Billy was 􏰁ung back into his childhood. He was twelve years old, quaking as he stood with his mother and father on Bright Angel Point, at the rim of the Grand Canyon. The little human family was staring at the floor of the canyon, one mile straight down.
“Well—” said Billy’s father, manfully kicking a pebble into space, “there it is.” They had come to this famous place by automobile. They had had seven blowouts on the way.
“It was worth the trip,” said Billy’s mother raptly. “Oh, God—was it ever worth it.” Billy hated the canyon. He was sure that he was going to fall in. His mother touched
him, and he wet his pants.
There were other tourists looking down into the canyon, too, and a ranger was there to answer questions. A Frenchman who had come all the way from France asked the ranger in broken English if many people committed suicide by jumping in.
“Yes, sir,” said the ranger. “About three folks a year.” So it goes.
And Billy took a very short trip through time, made a peewee jump of only ten days, so he was still twelve, still touring the West with his family. Now they were down in Carlsbad Caverns, and Billy was praying to God to get him out of there before the ceiling fell in.
A ranger was explaining that the Caverns had been discovered by a cowboy who saw a huge cloud of bats come out of a hole in the ground. And then he said that he was going to turn out all the lights, and that it would probably be the 􏰀rst time in the lives of most people there that they had ever been in darkness that was total.
Out went the lights. Billy didn’t even know whether he was still alive or not. And then something ghostly 􏰁oated in air to his left. It had numbers on it. His father had taken out his pocket watch. The watch had a radium dial.
Billy went from total dark to total light, found himself back in the war, back in the delousing station again. The shower was over. An unseen hand had turned the water off.
When Billy got his clothes back, they weren’t any cleaner, but all the little animals that had been living in them were dead. So it goes. And his new overcoat was thawed out and limp now. It was much too small for Billy. It had a fur collar and a lining of crimson silk, and had apparently been made for an impresario about as big as an organ- grinder’s monkey. It was full of bullet holes.
Billy Pilgrim dressed himself. He put on the little overcoat, too. It split up the back, and, at the shoulders, the sleeves came entirely free. So the coat became a fur-collared vest. It was meant to 􏰁are at its owner’s waist, but the 􏰁aring took place at Billy’s
   
armpits. The Germans found him to be one of the most screamingly funny things they had seen in all of World War Two. They laughed and laughed.
And the Germans told everybody else to form in ranks of 􏰀ve, with Billy as their pivot. Then out of doors went the parade, and through gate after gate again. There were more starving Russians with faces like radium dials. The Americans were livelier than before. The jazzing with hot water had cheered them up. And they came to a shed where a corporal with only one arm and one eye wrote the name and serial number of each prisoner in a big, red ledger. Everybody was legally alive now. Before they got their names and numbers in that book, they were missing in action and probably dead.
So it goes.
As the Americans were waiting to move on, an altercation broke out in their rear- most rank. An American had muttered something which a guard did not like. The guard knew English, and he hauled the American out of ranks, knocked him down.
The American was astonished. He stood up shakily, spitting blood. He’d had two teeth knocked out. He had meant no harm by what he’d said, evidently, had no idea that the guard would hear and understand.
“Why me?” he asked the guard.
The guard shoved him back into ranks. “Vy you? Vy anybody?” he said.
When Billy Pilgrim’s name was inscribed in the ledger of the prison camp, he was given a number, too, and an iron dogtag in which that number was stamped. A slave laborer from Poland had done the stamping. He was dead now. So it goes.
Billy was told to hang the tag around his neck along with his American dogtags, which he did. The tag was like a salt cracker, perforated down its middle so that a strong man could snap it in two with his bare hands. In case Billy died, which he didn’t, half of the tag would mark his body and half would mark his grave.
After poor Edgar Derby, the high school teacher, was shot in Dresden later on, a doctor pronounced him dead and snapped his dogtag in two. So it goes.
Properly enrolled and tagged, the Americans were led through gate after gate again. In two days’ time now their families would learn from the International Red Cross that they were alive.
Next to Billy was little Paul Lazzaro, who had promised to avenge Roland Weary. Lazzaro wasn’t thinking about vengeance. He was thinking about his terrible bellyache. His stomach had shrunk to the size of a walnut. That dry, shriveled pouch was as sore as a boil.
    
Next to Lazzaro was poor, doomed old Edgar Derby, with his American and German dogs displayed like a necklace, on the outside of his clothes. He had expected to become a captain, a company commander, because of his wisdom and age. Now here he was on the Czechoslovakian border at midnight.
“Halt,” said a guard.
The Americans halted. They stood there quietly in the cold. The sheds they were among were outwardly like thousands of other sheds they had passed. There was this di􏰃erence, though: the sheds had tin chimneys, and out of the chimneys whirled constellations of sparks.
A guard knocked on a door.
The door was 􏰁ung open from inside. Light leaped out through the door, escaped from prison at 186,000 miles per second. Out marched 􏰀fty middle-aged Englishmen. They were singing “Hail, Hail, the Gang’s All Here” from the Pirates of Penzance.
These lusty, ruddy vocalists were among the 􏰀rst English-speaking prisoners to be taken in the Second World War. Now they were singing to nearly the last. They had not seen a woman or a child for four years or more. They hadn’t seen any birds, either. Not even sparrows would come into the camp.
The Englishmen were o􏰂cers. Each of them had attempted to escape from another prison at least once. Now they were here, dead-center in a sea of dying Russians.
They could tunnel all they pleased. They would inevitably surface within a rectangle of barbed wire, would 􏰀nd themselves greeted listlessly by dying Russians who spoke no English, who had no food or useful information or escape plans of their own. They could scheme all they pleased to hide aboard a vehicle or steal one, but no vehicle ever came into their compound. They could feign illness, if they liked, but that wouldn’t earn them a trip anywhere, either. The only hospital in the camp was a six-bed a􏰃air in the British compound itself.
The Englishmen were clean and enthusiastic and decent and strong. They sang boomingly well. They had been singing together every night for years.
The Englishmen had also been lifting weights and chinning themselves for years. Their bellies were like washboards. The muscles of their calves and upper arms were like cannonballs. They were all masters of checkers and chess and bridge and cribbage and dominoes and anagrams and charades and Ping-Pong and billiards, as well.
They were among the wealthiest people in Europe, in terms of food. A clerical error early in the war, when food was still getting through to prisoners, had caused the Red Cross to ship them 􏰀ve hundred parcels every month instead of 􏰀fty. The Englishmen had hoarded these so cunningly that now, as the war was ending, they had three tons of sugar, one ton of co􏰃ee, eleven hundred pounds of chocolate, seven hundred pounds of tobacco, seventeen hundred pounds of tea, two tons of 􏰁our, one ton of canned beef, twelve hundred pounds of canned butter, sixteen hundred pounds of canned cheese,
 
eight hundred pounds of powdered milk, and two tons of orange marmalade.
They kept all this in a room without windows. They had ratproofed it by lining it with flattened tin cans.
They were adored by the Germans, who thought they were exactly what Englishmen ought to be. They made war look stylish and reasonable, and fun. So the Germans let them have four sheds, though one shed would have held them all. And, in exchange for co􏰃ee or chocolate or tobacco, the Germans gave them paint and lumber and nails and cloth for fixing things up.
The Englishmen had known for twelve hours that American guests were on their way. They had never had guests before, and they went to work like darling elves, sweeping, mopping, cooking, baking—making mattresses of straw and burlap bags, setting tables, putting party favors at each place.
Now they were singing their welcome to their guests in the winter night. Their clothes were aromatic with the feast they had been preparing. They were dressed half for battle, half for tennis or croquet. They were so elated by their own hospitality, and by all the goodies waiting inside, that they did not take a good look at their guests while they sang. And they imagined that they were singing to fellow o􏰂cers fresh from the
fray.They wrestled the Americans toward the shed door a􏰃ectionately, 􏰀lling the night with manly blather and brotherly rodomontades. They called them “Yank,” told them “Good show,” promised them that “Jerry was on the run,” and so on.
Billy Pilgrim wondered dimly who Jerry was.
Now he was indoors, next to an iron cookstove that was glowing cherry red. Dozens of teapots were boiling there. Some of them had whistles. And there was a witches’ cauldron full of golden soup. The soup was thick. Primeval bubbles surfaced it with lethargical majesty as Billy Pilgrim stared.
There were long tables set for a banquet. At each place was a bowl made from a can that had once contained powdered milk. A smaller can was a cup. A taller, more slender can was a tumbler. Each tumbler was filled with warm milk.
At each place was a safety razor, a washcloth, a package of razor blades, a chocolate bar, two cigars, a bar of soap, ten cigarettes, a book of matches, a pencil, and a candle.
Only the candles and the soap were of German origin. They had a ghostly, opalescent similarity. The British had no way of knowing it, but the candles and the soap were made from the fat of rendered Jews and Gypsies and fairies and communists, and other enemies of the State.
  So it goes.

 The banquet hall was illuminated by candlelight. There were heaps of fresh-baked white bread on the tables, gobs of butter, pots of marmalade. There were platters of sliced beef from cans. Soup and scrambled eggs and hot marmalade pie were yet to come.
And, at the far end of the shed, Billy saw pink arches with azure draperies hanging between them, and an enormous clock, and two golden thrones, and a bucket and a mop. It was in this setting that the evening’s entertainment would take place, a musical version of Cinderella, the most popular story ever told.
Billy Pilgrim was on 􏰀re, having stood too close to the glowing stove. The hem of his little coat was burning. It was a quiet, patient sort of fire—like the burning of punk.
Billy wondered if there was a telephone somewhere. He wanted to call his mother, to tell her he was alive and well.
There was silence now, as the Englishmen looked in astonishment at the frowsy creatures they had so lustily waltzed inside. One of the Englishmen saw that Billy was on 􏰀re. “You’re on 􏰀re, lad!” he said, and he got Billy away from the stove and beat out the sparks with his hands.
When Billy made no comment on this, the Englishman asked him, “Can you talk? Can you hear?”
Billy nodded.
The Englishman touched him exploratorily here and there, 􏰀lled with pity. “My God —what have they done to you, lad? This isn’t a man. It’s a broken kite.”
“Are you really an American?” said the Englishman. “Yes,” said Billy.
“And your rank?”
“Private.”
“What became of your boots, lad?” “I don’t remember.”
“Is that coat a joke?”
“Sir?”
“Where did you get such a thing?”
Billy had to think hard about that. “They gave it to me,” he said at last. “Jerry gave it to you?”
“Who?”
“The Germans gave it to you?”
  
“Yes.”
Billy didn’t like the questions. They were fatiguing.
“Ohhhh—Yank, Yank, Yank—” said the Englishman, “that coat was an insult.”
“Sir?”
“It was a deliberate attempt to humiliate you. You mustn’t let Jerry do things like that.”
Billy Pilgrim swooned.
Billy came to on a chair facing the stage. He had somehow eaten, and now he was watching Cinderella. Some part of him had evidently been enjoying the performance for quite a while. Billy was laughing hard.
The women in the play were really men, of course. The clock had just struck midnight, and Cinderella was lamenting:
“Goodness me, the clock has struck— Alackday, and fuck my luck.”
Billy found the couplet so comical that he not only laughed—he shrieked. He went on shrieking until he was carried out of the shed and into another, where the hospital was. It was a six-bed hospital. There weren’t any other patients in there.
Billy was put to bed and tied down, and given a shot of morphine. Another American volunteered to watch over him. This volunteer was Edgar Derby, the high school teacher who would be shot to death in Dresden. So it goes.
Derby sat on a three-legged stool. He was given a book to read. The book was The Red Badge of Courage, by Stephen Crane. Derby had read it before. Now he read it again while Billy Pilgrim entered a morphine paradise.
Under morphine, Billy had a dream of gira􏰃es in a garden. The gira􏰃es were following gravel paths, were pausing to munch sugar pears from tree-tops. Billy was a gira􏰃e, too. He ate a pear. It was a hard one. It fought back against his grinding teeth. It snapped in juicy protest.
The gira􏰃es accepted Billy as one of their own, as a harmless creature as preposterously specialized as themselves. Two approached him from opposite sides, leaned against him. They had long, muscular upper lips which they could shape like the bells of bugles. They kissed him with these. They were female gira􏰃es—cream and lemon yellow. They had horns like doorknobs. The knobs were covered with velvet.
  Why?
 
Night came to the garden of the gira􏰃es, and Billy Pilgrim slept without dreaming for a while, and then he traveled in time. He woke up with his head under a blanket in a ward for nonviolent mental patients in a veterans’ hospital near Lake Placid, New York. It was springtime in 1948, three years after the end of the war.
Billy uncovered his head. The windows of the ward were open. Birds were twittering outside. “Poo-tee-weet?” one asked him. The sun was high. There were twenty-nine other patients assigned to the ward, but they were all outdoors now, enjoying the day. They were free to come and go as they pleased, to go home, even, if they like—and so was Billy Pilgrim. They had come here voluntarily, alarmed by the outside world.
Billy had committed himself in the middle of his 􏰀nal year at the Ilium School of Optometry. Nobody else suspected that he was going crazy. Everybody else thought he looked 􏰀ne and was acting 􏰀ne. Now he was in the hospital. The doctors agreed: He was going crazy.
They didn’t think it had anything to do with the war. They were sure Billy was going to pieces because his father had thrown him into the deep end of the Y.M.C.A. swimming pool when he was a little boy, and had then taken him to the rim of the Grand Canyon.
The man assigned to the bed next to Billy’s was a former infantry captain named Eliot Rosewater. Rosewater was sick and tired of being drunk all the time.
It was Rosewater who introduced Billy to science 􏰀ction, and in particular to the writings of Kilgore Trout. Rosewater had a tremendous collection of science-􏰀ction paperbacks under his bed. He had brought them to the hospital in a steamer trunk. Those beloved, frumpish books gave o􏰃 a smell that permeated the ward—like 􏰁annel pajamas that hadn’t been changed for a month, or like Irish stew.
Kilgore Trout became Billy’s favorite living author, and science 􏰀ction became the only sort of tales he could read.
Rosewater was twice as smart as Billy, but he and Billy were dealing with similar crises in similar ways. They had both found life meaningless, partly because of what they had seen in war. Rosewater, for instance, had shot a fourteen-year-old 􏰀reman, mistaking him for a German soldier. So it goes. And Billy had seen the greatest massacre in European history, which was the fire-bombing of Dresden. So it goes.
So they were trying to re-invent themselves and their universe. Science fiction was a big help.
•••
Rosewater said an interesting thing to Billy one time about a book that wasn’t science 􏰀ction. He said that everything there was to know about life was in The Brothers Karamazov, by Feodor Dostoevsky. “But that isn’t enough any more,” said Rosewater.
 
Another time Billy heard Rosewater say to a psychiatrist, “I think you guys are going to have to come up with a lot of wonderful new lies, or people just aren’t going to want to go on living.”
There was a still life on Billy’s bedside table—two pills, an ashtray with three lipstick-stained cigarettes in it, one cigarette still burning, and a glass of water. The water was dead. So it goes. Air was trying to get out of that dead water. Bubbles were clinging to the walls of the glass, too weak to climb out.
The cigarettes belonged to Billy’s chain-smoking mother. She had sought the ladies’ room, which was o􏰃 the ward for WACS and WAVES and SPARS and WAFS who had gone bananas. She would be back at any moment now.
Billy covered his head with his blanket again. He always covered his head when his mother came to see him in the mental ward—always got much sicker until she went away. It wasn’t that she was ugly, or had bad breath or a bad personality. She was a perfectly nice, standard-issue, brown-haired, white woman with a high-school education.
She upset Billy simply by being his mother. She made him feel embarrassed and ungrateful and weak because she had gone to so much trouble to give him life, and to keep that life going, and Billy didn’t really like life at all.
Billy heard Eliot Rosewater come in and lie down. Rosewater’s bedsprings talked a lot about that. Rosewater was a big man, but not very powerful. He looked as though he might be made out of nose putty.
And then Billy’s mother came back from the ladies’ room, sat down on a chair between Billy’s and Rosewater’s bed. Rosewater greeted her with melodious warmth, asked how she was today. He seemed delighted to hear that she was 􏰀ne. He was experimenting with being ardently sympathetic with everybody he met. He thought that might make the world a slightly more pleasant place to live in. He called Billy’s mother “dear.” He was experimenting with calling everybody “dear.”
“Some day,” she promised Rosewater, “I’m going to come in here, and Billy is going to uncover his head, and do you know what he’s going to say?”
“What’s he going to say, dear?”
“He’s going to say, ‘Hello, Mom,’ and he’s going to smile. He’s going to say, ‘Gee, it’s good to see you, Mom. How have you been?’”
“Today could be the day.” “Every night I pray.” “That’s a good thing to do.”
“People would be surprised if they knew how much in this world was due to prayers.”
  
“You never said a truer word, dear.”
“Does your mother come to see you often?”
“My mother is dead,” said Rosewater. So it goes.
“I’m sorry.”
“At least she had a happy life as long as it lasted.”
“That’s a consolation, anyway.”
“Yes.”
“Billy’s father is dead, you know,” said Billy’s mother. So it goes.
“A boy needs a father.”
And on and on it went—that duet between the dumb, praying lady and the big, hollow man who was so full of loving echoes.
“He was at the top of his class when this happened,” said Billy’s mother.
“Maybe he was working too hard,” said Rose-water. He held a book he wanted to read, but he was much too polite to read and talk, too, easy as it was to give Billy’s mother satisfactory answers. The book was Maniacs in the Fourth Dimension, by Kilgore Trout. It was about people whose mental diseases couldn’t be treated because the causes of the diseases were all in the fourth dimension, and three-dimensional Earthling doctors couldn’t see those causes at all, or even imagine them.
One thing Trout said that Rosewater liked very much was that there really were vampires and werewolves and goblins and angels and so on, but that they were in the fourth dimension. So was William Blake, Rosewater’s favorite poet, according to Trout. So were heaven and hell.
•••
“He’s engaged to a very rich girl,” said Billy’s mother.
“That’s good,” said Rosewater. “Money can be a great comfort sometimes.” “It really can.”
“Of course it can.”
“It isn’t much fun if you have to pinch every penny till it screams.”
“It’s nice to have a little breathing room.”
“Her father owns the optometry school where Billy was going. He also owns six o􏰂ces around our part of the state. He 􏰁ies his own plane and has a summer place up on Lake George.”
“That’s a beautiful lake.”
Billy fell asleep under his blanket. When he woke up again, he was tied to the bed in the hospital back in prison. He opened one eye, saw poor old Edgar Derby reading The Red Badge of Courage by candlelight.
 
Billy closed that one eye, saw in his memory of the future poor old Edgar Derby in front of a 􏰀ring squad in the ruins of Dresden. There were only four men in that squad. Billy had heard that one man in each 􏰀ring squad was customarily given a ri􏰁e loaded with blank cartridge. Billy didn’t think there would be a blank cartridge issued in a squad that small, in a war that old.
Now the head Englishman came into the hospital to check on Billy. He was an infantry colonel captured at Dunkirk. It was he who had given Billy morphine. There wasn’t a real doctor in the compound, so the doctoring was up to him. “How’s the patient?” he asked Derby.
“Dead to the world.”
“But not actually dead.”
“No.”
“How nice—to feel nothing, and still get full credit for being alive.”
Derby now came to lugubrious attention.
“No—no—please—as you were. With only two men for each o􏰂cer, and all the men sick, I think we can do without the usual pageantry between officers and men.”
Derby remained standing. “You seem older than the rest,” said the colonel.
Derby told him he was forty-􏰀ve, which was two years older than the colonel. The colonel said that the other Americans had all shaved now, that Billy and Derby were the only two still with beards. And he said, “You know—we’ve had to imagine the war here, and we have imagined that it was being fought by aging men like ourselves. We had forgotten that wars were fought by babies. When I saw those freshly shaved faces, it was a shock. ‘My God, my God—’ I said to myself, ‘It’s the Children’s Crusade.’”
The colonel asked old Derby how he had been captured, and Derby told a tale of being in a clump of trees with about a hundred other frightened soldiers. The battle had been going on for five days. The hundred had been driven into the trees by tanks.
Derby described the incredible arti􏰀cial weather that Earthlings sometimes create for other Earthlings when they don’t want those other Earth-lings to inhabit Earth any more. Shells were bursting in the treetops with terri􏰀c bangs, he said, showering down knives and needles and razorblades. Little lumps of lead in copper jackets were crisscrossing the woods under the shellbursts, zipping along much faster than sound.
A lot of people were being wounded or killed. So it goes.
Then the shelling stopped, and a hidden German with a loudspeaker told the Americans to put their weapons down and come out of the woods with their hands on the top of their heads, or the shelling would start again. It wouldn’t stop until everybody in there was dead.
So the Americans put their weapons down, and they came out of the woods with their hands on top of their heads, because they wanted to go on living, if they possibly
 
could.
 Billy traveled in time back to the veterans’ hospital again. The blanket was over his head. It was quiet outside the blanket. “Is my mother gone?” said Billy.
“Yes.”
Billy peeked out from under his blanket. His 􏰀ancée was out there now, sitting on the visitor’s chair. Her name was Valencia Merble. Valencia was the daughter of the owner of the Ilium School of Optometry. She was rich. She was as big as a house because she couldn’t stop eating. She was eating now. She was eating a Three Musketeers Candy Bar. She was wearing tri-focal lenses in harlequin frames, and the frames were trimmed with rhinestones. The glitter of the rhinestones was answered by the glitter of the diamond in her engagement ring. The diamond was insured for eighteen hundred dollars. Billy had found that diamond in Germany. It was booty of war.
Billy didn’t want to marry ugly Valencia. She was one of the symptoms of his disease. He knew he was going crazy when he heard himself proposing marriage to her, when he begged her to take the diamond ring and be his companion for life.
Billy said, “Hello,” to her, and she asked him if he wanted some candy, and he said, “No, thanks.”
She asked him how he was, and he said, “Much better, thanks.” She said that everybody at the Optometry School was sorry he was sick and hoped he would be well soon, and Billy said, “When you see ’em, tell ’em, ‘Hello.’”
She promised she would.
She asked him if there was anything she could bring him from the outside, and he said, “No. I have just about everything I want.”
“What about books?” said Valencia.
“I’m right next to one of the biggest private libraries in the world,” said Billy, meaning Eliot Rosewater’s collection of science fiction.
Rosewater was on the next bed, reading, and Billy drew him into the conversation, asked him what he was reading this time.
So Rosewater told him. It was The Gospel from Outer Space, by Kilgore Trout. It was about a visitor from outer space, shaped very much like a Tralfamadorian, by the way. The visitor from outer space made a serious study of Christianity, to learn, if he could, why Christians found it so easy to be cruel. He concluded that at least part of the trouble was slipshod storytelling in the New Testament. He supposed that the intent of the Gospels was to teach people, among other things, to be merciful, even to the lowest of the low.
  
But the Gospels actually taught this:
Before you kill somebody, make absolutely sure he isn’t well connected. So it goes.
The 􏰁aw in the Christ stories, said the visitor from outer space, was that Christ, who didn’t look like much, was actually the Son of the Most Powerful Being in the Universe. Readers understood that, so, when they came to the cruci􏰀xion, they naturally thought, and Rosewater read out loud again:
Oh, boy—they sure picked the wrong guy to lynch that time!
And that thought had a brother: “There are right people to lynch.” Who? People not
well connected. So it goes.
The visitor from outer space made a gift to Earth of a new Gospel. In it, Jesus really was a nobody, and a pain in the neck to a lot of people with better connections than he had. He still got to say all the lovely and puzzling things he said in the other Gospels.
So the people amused themselves one day by nailing him to a cross and planting the cross in the ground. There couldn’t possibly be any repercussions, the lynchers thought. The reader would have to think that, too, since the new Gospel hammered home again and again what a nobody Jesus was.
And then, just before the nobody died, the heavens opened up, and there was thunder and lightning. The voice of God came crashing down. He told the people that he was adopting the bum as his son, giving him the full powers and privileges of The Son of the Creator of the Universe throughout all eternity. God said this: From this moment on, He will punish horribly anybody who torments a bum who has no connections!
Billy’s 􏰀ancée had 􏰀nished her Three Musketeers Candy Bar. Now she was eating a Milky Why.
“Forget books,” said Rosewater, throwing that particular book under his bed. “The hell with ’em.”
“That sounded like an interesting one,” said Valencia.
“Jesus—if Kilgore Trout could only write!” Rosewater exclaimed. He had a point: Kilgore Trout’s unpopularity was deserved. His prose was frightful. Only his ideas were good.
“I don’t think Trout has ever been out of the country,” Rosewater went on. “My God —he writes about Earthlings all the time, and they’re all Americans. Practically nobody on Earth is an American.”
    “Where does he live?” Valencia asked.

“Nobody knows,” Rosewater replied. “I’m the only person who ever heard of him, as far as I can tell. No two books have the same publisher, and every time I write him in care of a publisher, the letter comes back because the publisher has failed.”
He changed the subject now, congratulated Valencia on her engagement ring.
“Thank you,” she said, and held it out so Rosewater could get a close look. “Billy got that diamond in the war.”
“That’s the attractive thing about war,” said Rosewater. “Absolutely everybody gets a little something.”
With regard to the whereabouts of Kilgore Trout: he actually lived in Ilium, Billy’s hometown, friendless and despised. Billy would meet him by and by.
“Billy—” said Valencia Merble.
“Hm?”
“You want to talk about our silver pattern?”
“Sure.”
“I’ve got it narrowed down pretty much to either Royal Danish or Rambler Rose.”
“Rambler Rose,” said Billy.
“It isn’t something we should rush into,” she said. “I mean—whatever we decide on, that’s what we’re going to have to live with the rest of our lives.”
Billy studied the pictures. “Royal Danish,” he said at last. “Colonial Moonlight is nice, too.”
“Yes, it is,” said Billy Pilgrim.
And Billy traveled in time to the zoo on Tralfamadore. He was forty-four years old, on display under a geodesic dome. He was reclining on the lounge chair which had been his cradle during his trip through space. He was naked. The Tralfamadorians were interested in his body—all of it. There were thousands of them outside, holding up their little hands so that their eyes could see him. Billy had been on Tralfamadore for six Earthling months now. He was used to the crowd.
Escape was out of the question. The atmosphere outside the dome was cyanide, and Earth was 446,120,000,000,000,000 miles away.
Billy was displayed there in the zoo in a simulated Earthling habitat. Most of the furnishings had been stolen from the Sears Roebuck warehouse in Iowa City, Iowa. There was a color television set and a couch that could be converted into a bed. There
    
were end tables with lamps and ashtrays on them by the couch. There was a home bar and two stools. There was a little pool table. There was wall-to-wall carpeting in federal gold, except in the kitchen and bathroom areas and over the iron manhole cover in the center of the 􏰁oor. There were magazines arranged in a fan on the co􏰃ee table in front of the couch.
There was a stereophonic phonograph. The phonograph worked. The television didn’t. There was a picture of one cowboy killing another one pasted to the television tube. So it goes.
There were no walls in the dome, no place for Billy to hide. The mint green bathroom 􏰀xtures were right out in the open. Billy got o􏰃 his lounge chair now, went into the bathroom and took a leak. The crowd went wild.
•••
Billy brushed his teeth on Tralfamadore, put in his partial denture, and went into his kitchen. His bottled-gas range and his refrigerator and his dishwasher were mint green, too. There was a picture painted on the door of the refrigerator. The refrigerator had come that way. It was a picture of a Gay Nineties couple on a bicycle built for two.
Billy looked at that picture now, tried to think something about the couple. Nothing came to him. There didn’t seem to be anything to think about those two people.
Billy ate a good breakfast from cans. He washed his cup and plate and knife and fork and spoon and saucepan, put them away. Then he did exercises he had learned in the Army—straddle jumps, deep knee bends, sit-ups and push-ups. Most Tralfamadorians had no way of knowing Billy’s body and face were not beautiful. They supposed that he was a splendid specimen. This had a pleasant e􏰃ect on Billy, who began to enjoy his body for the first time.
He showered after his exercises and trimmed his toenails. He shaved, and sprayed deodorant under his arms, while a zoo guide on a raised platform outside explained what Billy was doing—and why. The guide was lecturing telepathically, simply standing there, sending out thought waves to the crowd. On the platform with him was the little keyboard instrument with which he would relay questions to Billy from the crowd.
Now the 􏰀rst question came—from the speaker on the television set: “Are you happy here?”
“About as happy as I was on Earth,” said Billy Pilgrim, which was true.
There were 􏰀ve sexes on Tralfamadore, each of them performing a step necessary in the creation of a new individual. They looked identical to Billy—because their sex differences were all in the fourth dimension.
One of the biggest moral bombshells handed to Billy by the Tralfamadorians, incidentally had to do with sex on Earth. They said their 􏰁ying-saucer crews had
  
identi􏰀ed no fewer than seven sexes on Earth, each essential to reproduction. Again: Billy couldn’t possibly imagine what 􏰀ve of those seven sexes had to do with the making of a baby, since they were sexually active only in the fourth dimension.
The Tralfamadorians tried to give Billy clues that would help him imagine sex in the invisible dimension. They told him that there could be no Earthling babies without male homosexuals. There could be babies without female homosexuals. There couldn’t be babies without women over sixty-􏰀ve years old. There could be babies without men over sixty-􏰀ve. There couldn’t be babies without other babies who had lived an hour or less after birth. And so on.
It was gibberish to Billy.
There was a lot that Billy said that was gibberish to the Tralfamadorians, too. They couldn’t imagine what time looked like to him. Billy had given up on explaining that. The guide outside had to explain as best he could.
The guide invited the crowd to imagine that they were looking across a desert at a mountain range on a day that was twinkling bright and clear. They could look at a peak or a bird or a cloud, at a stone right in front of them, or even down into a canyon behind them. But among them was this poor Earthling, and his head was encased in a steel sphere which he could never take o􏰃. There was only one eyehole through which he could look, and welded to that eyehole were six feet of pipe.
This was only the beginning of Billy’s miseries in the metaphor. He was also strapped to a steel lattice which was bolted to a 􏰁atcar on rails, and there was no way he could turn his head or touch the pipe. The far end of the pipe rested on a bi-pod which was also bolted to the 􏰁atcar. All Billy could see was the little dot at the end of the pipe. He didn’t know he was on a 􏰁atcar, didn’t even know there was anything peculiar about his situation.
The 􏰁atcar sometimes crept, sometimes went extremely fast, often stopped—went uphill, downhill, around curves, along straightaways. Whatever poor Billy saw through the pipe, he had no choice but to say to himself, “That’s life.”
Billy expected the Tralfamadorians to be ba􏰄ed and alarmed by all the wars and other forms of murder on Earth. He expected them to fear that the Earthling combination of ferocity and spectacular weaponry might eventually destroy part or maybe all of the innocent Universe. Science fiction had led him to expect that.
But the subject of war never came up until Billy brought it up himself. Somebody in the zoo crowd asked him through the lecturer what the most valuable thing he had learned on Tralfamadore was so far, and Billy replied, “How the inhabitants of a whole planet can live in peace! As you know, I am from a planet that has been engaged in senseless slaughter since the beginning of time. I myself have seen the bodies of
  
schoolgirls who were boiled alive in a water tower by my own countrymen, who were proud of 􏰀ghting pure evil at the time.” This was true. Billy saw the boiled bodies in Dresden. “And I have lit my way in a prison at night with candles from the fat of human beings who were butchered by the brothers and fathers of those schoolgirls who were boiled. Earthlings must be the terrors of the Universe! If other planets aren’t now in danger from Earth, they soon will be. So tell me the secret so I can take it back to Earth and save us all: How can a planet live at peace?”
Billy felt that he had spoken soaringly. He was ba􏰄ed when he saw the Tralfamadorians close their little hands on their eyes. He knew from past experience what this meant: He was being stupid.
•••
“Would—would you mind telling me—” he said to the guide, much de􏰁ated, “what was so stupid about that?”
“We know how the Universe ends—” said the guide, “and Earth has nothing to do with it, except that it gets wiped out, too.”
“How—how does the Universe end?” said Billy.
“We blow it up, experimenting with new fuels for our 􏰁ying saucers. A Tralfamadorian test pilot presses a starter button, and the whole Universe disappears.” So it goes.
“If you know this,” said Billy, “isn’t there some way you can prevent it? Can’t you keep the pilot from pressing the button?”
“He has always pressed it, and he always will. We always let him and we always will let him. The moment is structured that way.”
“So—” said Billy gropingly, “I suppose that the idea of preventing war on Earth is stupid, too.”
“Of course.”
“But you do have a peaceful planet here.”
“Today we do. On other days we have wars as horrible as any you’ve ever seen or read about. There isn’t anything we can do about them, so we simply don’t look at them. We ignore them. We spend eternity looking at pleasant moments—like today at the zoo. Isn’t this a nice moment?”
“Yes.”
“That’s one thing Earthlings might learn to do, if they tried hard enough: Ignore the awful times, and concentrate on the good ones.”
  “Um,” said Billy Pilgrim.

Shortly after he went to sleep that night, Billy traveled in time to another moment which was quite nice, his wedding night with the former Valencia Merble. He had been out of the veterans’ hospital for six months. He was all well. He had graduated from the Ilium School of Optometry—third in his class of forty-seven.
Now he was in bed with Valencia in a delightful studio apartment which was built on the end of a wharf on Cape Ann, Massachusetts. Across the water were the lights of Gloucester. Billy was on top of Valencia, making love to her. One result of this act would be the birth of Robert Pilgrim, who would become a problem in high school, but who would then straighten out as a member of the famous Green Berets.
Valencia wasn’t a time-traveler, but she did have a lively imagination. While Billy was making love to her, she imagined that she was a famous woman in history. She was being Queen Elizabeth the First of England, and Billy was supposedly Christopher Columbus.
Billy made a noise like a small, rusty hinge. He had just emptied his seminal vesicles into Valencia, had contributed his share of the Green Beret. According to the Tralfamadorians, of course, the Green Beret would have seven parents in all.
Now he rolled o􏰃 his huge wife, whose rapt expression did not change when he departed. He lay with the buttons of his spine along the edge of the mattress, folded his hands behind his head. He was rich now. He had been rewarded for marrying a girl nobody in his right mind would have married. His father-in-law had given him a new Buick Roadmaster, an all-electric home, and had made him manager of his most prosperous o􏰂ce, his Ilium o􏰂ce, where Billy could expect to make at least thirty thousand dollars a year. That was good. His father had been only a barber.
As his mother said, “The Pilgrims are coming up in the world.”
The honeymoon was taking place in the bittersweet mysteries of Indian Summer in New England. The lovers’ apartment had one romantic wall which was all French doors. They opened onto a balcony and the oily harbor beyond.
A green and orange dragger, black in the night, grumbled and drummed past their balcony, not thirty feet from their wedding bed. It was going to sea with only its running lights on. Its empty holds were resonant, made the song of the engines rich and loud. The wharf began to sing the same song, and then the honeymooners’ headboard sang, too. And it continued to sing long after the dragger was gone.
“Thank you,” said Valencia at last. The headboard was singing a mosquito song. “You’re welcome.”
“It was nice.”
Then she began to cry.
  
“What’s the matter?”
“I’m so happy.”
“Good.”
“I never thought anybody would marry me.” “Um,” said Billy Pilgrim.
“I’m going to lose weight for you,” she said.
“What?”
“I’m going to go on a diet. I’m going to become beautiful for you.”
“I like you just the way you are.”
“Do you really?”
“Really,” said Billy Pilgrim. He had already seen a lot of their marriage, thanks to time-travel, knew that it was going to be at least bearable all the way.
A great motor yacht named the Scheherezade now slid past the marriage bed. The song its engines sang was a very low organ note. All her lights were on.
Two beautiful people, a young man and a young woman in evening clothes, were at the rail in the stern, loving each other and their dreams and the lake. They were honeymooning, too. They were Lance Rumfoord, of Newport, Rhode Island, and his bride, the former Cynthia Landry, who had been a childhood sweetheart of John F. Kennedy in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts.
There was a slight coincidence here. Billy Pilgrim would later share a hospital room with Rumfoord’s uncle, Professor Bertram Copeland Rumfoord of Harvard, o􏰂cial Historian of the United States Air Force.
When the beautiful people were past, Valencia questioned her funny-looking husband about war. It was a simple-minded thing for a female Earthling to do, to associate sex and glamor with war.
“Do you ever think about the war?” she said, laying a hand on his thigh. “Sometimes,” said Billy Pilgrim.
“I look at you sometimes,” said Valencia, “and I get a funny feeling that you’re just full of secrets.”
“I’m not,” said Billy. This was a lie, of course. He hadn’t told anybody about all the time-traveling he’d done, about Tralfamadore and so on.
    “You must have secrets about the war. Or, not secrets, I guess, but things you don’t

want to talk about.” “No.”
“I’m proud you were a soldier. Do you know that?”
“Good.”
“Was it awful?”
“Sometimes.” A crazy thought now occurred to Billy. The truth of it startled him. It would make a good epitaph for Billy Pilgrim—and for me, too.
“Would you talk about the war now, if I wanted you to?” said Valencia. In a tiny cavity in her great body she was assembling the materials for a Green Beret.
“It would sound like a dream,” said Billy. “Other people’s dreams aren’t very interesting, usually.”
“I heard you tell Father one time about a German 􏰀ring squad.” She was referring to the execution of poor old Edgar Derby.
“Um.”
“You had to bury him?”
“Yes.”
“Did he see you with your shovels before he was shot?” “Yes.”
 
“Did he say anything?”
“No.”
“Was he scared?”
“They had him doped up. He was sort of glassy-eyed.” “And they pinned a target to him?”
“A piece of paper,” said Billy. He got out of bed, said, “Excuse me,” went into the darkness of the bathroom to take a leak. He groped for the light, realized as he felt the rough walls that he had traveled back to 1944, to the prison hospital again.
The candle in the hospital had gone out. Poor old Edgar Derby had fallen asleep on the cot next to Billy’s. Billy was out of bed, groping along a wall, trying to 􏰀nd a way out because he had to take a leak so badly.
He suddenly found a door, which opened, let him reel out into the prison night. Billy was loony with time-travel and morphine. He delivered himself to a barbed-wire fence which snagged him in a dozen places. Billy tried to back away from it, but the barbs wouldn’t let go. So Billy did a silly little dance with the fence, taking a step this way, then that way, then returning to the beginning again.
A Russian, himself out in the night to take a leak, saw Billy dancing—from the other side of the fence. He came over to the curious scarecrow, tried to talk with it gently, asked it what country it was from. The scarecrow paid no attention, went on dancing. So the Russian undid the snags one by one, and the scarecrow danced o􏰃 into the night again without a word of thanks.
The Russian waved to him, and called after him in Russian, “Good-bye.”
Billy took his pecker out, there in the prison night, and peed and peed on the ground. Then he put it away again, more or less, and contemplated a new problem: Where had he come from, and where should he go now?
Somewhere in the night there were cries of grief. With nothing better to do, Billy shu􏰄ed in their direction. He wondered what tragedy so many had found to lament out of doors.
Billy was approaching, without knowing it, the back of the latrine. It consisted of a one-rail fence with twelve buckets underneath it. The fence was sheltered on three sides by a screen of scrap lumber and 􏰁attened tin cans. The open side faced the black tarpaper wall of the shed where the feast had taken place.
Billy moved along the screen and reached a point where he could see a message freshly painted on the tarpaper wall. The words were written with the same pink paint which had brightened the set for Cinderella. Billy’s perceptions were so unreliable that he saw the words as hanging in air, painted on a transparent curtain, perhaps. And there
  
were lovely silver dots on the curtain, too. These were really nailheads holding the tarpaper to the shed. Billy could not imagine how the curtain was supported in nothingness, and he supposed that the magic curtain and the theatrical grief were part of some religious ceremony he knew nothing about.
Here is what the message said:
Billy looked inside the latrine. The wailing was coming from in there. The place was crammed with Americans who had taken their pants down. The welcome feast had made them as sick as volcanoes. The buckets were full or had been kicked over.
An American near Billy wailed that he had excreted everything but his brains. Moments later he said, “There they go, there they go.” He meant his brains.
That was I. That was me. That was the author of this book.
Billy reeled away from his vision of Hell. He passed three Englishmen who were watching the excrement festival from a distance. They were catatonic with disgust.
“Button your pants!” said one as Billy went by.
So Billy buttoned his pants. He came to the door of the little hospital by accident. He went through the door, and found himself honeymooning again, going from the bathroom back to bed with his bride on Cape Ann.
“I missed you,” said Valencia.
“I missed you,” said Billy Pilgrim. •••
Billy and Valencia went to sleep nestled like spoons, and Billy traveled in time back to the train ride he had taken in 1944—from maneuvers in South Carolina to his father’s funeral in Ilium. He hadn’t seen Europe or combat yet. This was still in the days of steam locomotives.
Billy had to change trains a lot. All the trains were slow. The coaches stunk of coal smoke and rationed tobacco and rationed booze and the farts of people eating wartime food. The upholstery of the iron seats was bristly, and Billy couldn’t sleep much. He got to sleep soundly when he was only three hours from Ilium, with his legs splayed toward the entrance of the busy dining car.
The porter woke him up when the train reached Ilium. Billy staggered o􏰃 with his du􏰃el bag, and then he stood on the station platform next to the porter, trying to wake up.
 
“Have a good nap, did you?” said the porter. “Yes,” said Billy.
“Man,” said the porter, “you sure had a hard-on.”
At three in the morning on Billy’s morphine night in prison, a new patient was carried into the hospital by two lusty Englishmen. He was tiny. He was Paul Lazzaro, the polka-dotted car thief from Cicero, Illinois. He had been caught stealing cigarettes from under the pillow of an Englishman. The Englishman, half asleep, had broken Lazzaro’s right arm and knocked him unconscious.
The Englishman who had done this was helping to carry Lazzaro in now. He had 􏰀ery red hair and no eyebrows. He had been Cinderella’s Blue Fairy Godmother in the play. Now he supported his half of Lazzaro with one hand while he closed the door behind himself with the other. “Doesn’t weigh as much as a chicken,” he said.
The Englishman with Lazzaro’s feet was the colonel who had given Billy his knock- out shot.
The Blue Fairy Godmother was embarrassed, and angry, too. “If I’d known I was fighting a chicken,” he said, “I wouldn’t have fought so hard.”
“Um.”
The Blue Fairy Godmother spoke frankly about how disgusting all the Americans were. “Weak, smelly, self-pitying—a pack of sniveling, dirty, thieving bastards,” he said. “They’re worse than the bleeding Russians.”
“Do seem a scruffy lot,” the colonel agreed.
A German major came in now. He considered the Englishmen as close friends. He visited them nearly every day, played games with them, lectured to them on German history, played their piano, gave them lessons in conversational German. He told them often that, if it weren’t for their civilized company, he would go mad. His English was splendid.
He was apologetic about the Englishmen’s having to put up with the American enlisted men. He promised them that they would not be inconvenienced for more than a day or two, that the Americans would soon be shipped to Dresden as contract labor. He had a monograph with him, published by the German Association of Prison O􏰂cials. It was a report on the behavior in Germany of American enlisted men as prisoners of war. It was written by a former American who had risen high in the German Ministry of Propaganda. His name was Howard W. Campbell, Jr. He would later hang himself while awaiting trial as a war criminal.
So it goes.
While the British colonel set Lazzaro’s broken arm and mixed plaster for the cast,
  
the German major translated out loud passages from Howard W. Campbell, Jr.’s monograph. Campbell had been a fairly well-known playwright at one time. His opening line was this one:
America is the wealthiest nation on Earth, but its people are mainly poor, and poor Americans are urged to hate themselves. To quote the American humorist Kin Hubbard, “It ain’t no disgrace to be poor, but it might as well be.” It is in fact a crime for an American to be poor, even though America is a nation of poor. Every other nation has folk traditions of men who were poor but extremely wise and virtuous, and therefore more estimable than anyone with power and gold. No such tales are told by the American poor. They mock themselves and glorify their betters. The meanest eating or drinking establishment, owned by a man who is himself poor, is very likely to have a sign on its wall asking this cruel question: “If you’re so smart, why ain’t you rich?” There will also be an American 􏰁ag no larger than a child’s hand— glued to a lollipop stick and flying from the cash register.
The author of the monograph, a native of Schenectady, New York, was said by some to have had the highest I.Q. of all the war criminals who were made to face a death by hanging. So it goes.
Americans, like human beings everywhere, believe many things that are obviously untrue, the monograph went on. Their most destructive untruth is that it is very easy for any American to make money. They will not acknowledge how in fact hard money is to come by, and, therefore, those who have no money blame and blame and blame themselves. This inward blame has been a treasure for the rich and powerful, who have had to do less for their poor, publicly and privately, than any other ruling class since, say, Napoleonic times.
Many novelties have come from America. The most startling of these, a thing without precedent, is a mass of undigni􏰀ed poor. They do not love one another because they do not love themselves. Once this is understood, the disagreeable behavior of American enlisted men in German prisons ceases to be a mystery.
Howard W. Campbell, Jr., now discussed the uniform of the American enlisted in World War Two: Every other army in history, prosperous or not, has attempted to clothe even its lowliest soldiers so as to make them impressive to themselves and others as stylish experts in drinking and copulation and looting and sudden death. The American Army, however, sends its enlisted men out to 􏰀ght and die in a modi􏰀ed business suit quite evidently made for another man, a sterilized but unpressed gift from a nose-holding charity which passes out clothing to drunks in the slums.
When a dashingly-clad o􏰂cer addresses such a frumpishly dressed bum, he scolds him, as an o􏰂cer in any army must. But the o􏰂cer’s contempt is not, as in other armies, avuncular theatricality. It is a genuine expression of hatred for the poor, who have no one to blame for their misery but themselves.
  A prison administrator dealing with captured American enlisted men for the 􏰀rst time

should be warned: Expect no brotherly love, even between brothers. There will be no cohesion between the individuals. Each will be a sulky child who often wishes he were dead.
Campbell told what the German experience with captured American enlisted men had been. They were known everywhere to be the most self-pitying, least fraternal, and dirtiest of all prisoners of war, said Campbell. They were incapable of concerted action on their own behalf. They despised any leader from among their own number, refused to follow or even listen to him, on the grounds that he was no better than they were, that he should stop putting on airs.
And so on. Billy Pilgrim went to sleep, woke up as a widower in his empty home in Ilium. His daughter Barbara was reproaching him for writing ridiculous letters to the newspapers.
“Did you hear what I said?” Barbara inquired. It was 1968 again.
“Of course.” He had been dozing.
“If you’re going to act like a child, maybe we’ll just have to treat you like a child.”
“That isn’t what happens next,” said Billy.
“We’ll see what happens next.” Big Barbara now embraced herself. “It’s awfully cold in here. Is the heat on?”
“The heat?”
“The furnace—the thing in the basement, the thing that makes hot air that comes
out of these registers. I don’t think it’s working.” “Maybe not.”
“Aren’t you cold?”
“I hadn’t noticed.”
“Oh my God, you are a child. If we leave you alone here, you’ll freeze to death, you’ll starve to death.” And so on. It was very exciting for her, taking his dignity away in the name of love.
Barbara called the oil-burner man, and she made Billy go to bed, made him promise to stay under the electric blanket until the heat came on. She set the control of the blanket at the highest notch, which soon made Billy’s bed hot enough to bake bread in.
When Barbara left, slamming the door behind her, Billy traveled in time to the zoo on Tralfamadore again. A mate had just been brought to him from Earth. She was Montana Wildhack, a motion picture star.
Montana was under heavy sedation. Tralfamadorians wearing gas masks brought her in, put her on Billy’s yellow lounge chair; withdrew through his airlock. The vast
   
crowd outside was delighted. All attendance records for the zoo were broken. Everybody on the planet wanted to see the Earthlings mate.
Montana was naked, and so was Billy, of course. He had a tremendous wang, incidentally. You never know who’ll get one.
Now she 􏰁uttered her eyelids. Her lashes were like buggy whips. “Where am I?” she said.“Everything is all right,” said Billy gently. “Please don’t be afraid.”
Montana had been unconscious during her trip from Earth. The Tralfamadorians hadn’t talked to her, hadn’t shown themselves to her. The last thing she remembered was sunning herself by a swimming pool in Palm Springs, California. Montana was only twenty years old. Around her neck was a silver chain with a heart-shaped locket hanging from it—between her breasts.
Now she turned her head to see the myriads of Tralfamadorians outside the dome. They were applauding her by opening and closing their little green hands quickly.
Montana screamed and screamed.
All the little green hands closed tight, because Montana’s terror was so unpleasant to see. The head zoo keeper ordered a crane operator, who was standing by, to drop a navy blue canopy over the dome, thus simulating Earthling night inside. Real night came to the zoo for only one Earthling hour out of every sixty-two.
Billy switched on a 􏰁oor lamp. The light from the single source threw the baroque detailing of Montana’s body into sharp relief. Billy was reminded of fantastic architecture in Dresden, before it was bombed.
In time, Montana came to love and trust Billy Pilgrim. He did not touch her until she made it clear that she wanted him to. After she had been on Tralfamadore for what would have been an Earth-ling week, she asked him shyly if he wouldn’t sleep with her. Which he did. It was heavenly.
And Billy traveled in time from that delightful bed to a bed in 1968. It was his bed in Ilium, and the electric blanket was turned up high. He was drenched in sweat, remembered groggily that his daughter had put him to bed, had told him to stay there until the oil burner was repaired.
Somebody was knocking on his bedroom door. “Yes?” said Billy.
“Oil-burner man.”
“Yes?”
   
“It’s running good now. Heat’s coming up.” “Good.”
“Mouse ate through a wire from the thermostat.” “I’ll be darned.”
Billy sni􏰃ed. His hot bed smelled like a mushroom cellar. He had had a wet dream about Montana Wildhack.
On the morning after that wet dream, Billy decided to go back to work in his o􏰂ce in the shopping plaza. Business was booming as usual. His assistants were keeping up with it nicely. They were startled to see him. They had been told by his daughter that he might never practice again.
But Billy went into his examining room briskly, asked that the 􏰀rst patient be sent in. So they sent him one—a twelve-year-old boy who was accompanied by his widowed mother. They were strangers, new in town. Billy asked them a little about themselves, learned that the boy’s father had been killed in Vietnam—in the famous 􏰀ve-day battle for Hill 875 near Dakto. So it goes.
•••
While he examined the boy’s eyes, Billy told him matter-of-factly about his adventures on Tralfamadore, assured the fatherless boy that his father was very much alive still in moments the boy would see again and again.
“Isn’t that comforting?” Billy asked.
And somewhere in there, the boy’s mother went out and told the receptionist that Billy was evidently going crazy. Billy was taken home. His daughter asked him again, “Father, Father, Father—what are we going to do with you?”
 
6 LISTEN:
Billy Pilgrim says he went to Dresden, Germany, on the day after his morphine night in the British compound in the center of the extermination camp for Russian prisoners of war. Billy woke up at dawn on that day in January. There were no windows in the little hospital, and the ghostly candles had gone out. So the only light came from pinprick holes in the walls, and from a sketchy rectangle that outlined the imperfectly 􏰀tted door. Little Paul Lazzaro, with a broken arm, snored on one bed. Edgar Derby, the high school teacher who would eventually be shot, snored on another.
Billy sat up in bed. He had no idea what year it was or what planet he was on. Whatever the planet’s name was, it was cold. But it wasn’t the cold that had awakened Billy. It was animal magnetism which was making him shiver and itch. It gave him profound aches in his musculature, as though he had been exercising hard.
The animal magnetism was coming from behind him. If Billy had had to guess as to the source, he would have said that there was a vampire bat hanging upside down on the wall behind him.
Billy moved down toward the foot of his cot before turning to look at whatever it was. He didn’t want the animal to drop into his face and maybe claw his eyes out or bite o􏰃 his big nose. Then he turned. The source of the magnetism really did resemble a bat. It was Billy’s impresario’s coat with the fur collar. It was hanging from a nail.
Billy now backed toward it again, looking at it over his shoulder, feeling the magnetism increase. Then he faced it, kneeling on his cot, dared to touch it here and there. He was seeking the exact source of the radiations.
He found two small sources, two lumps an inch apart and hidden in the lining. One was shaped like a pea. The other was shaped like a tiny horseshoe. Billy received a message carried by the radiations. He was told not to 􏰀nd out what the lumps were. He was advised to be content with knowing that they could work miracles for him, provided he did not insist on learning their nature. That was all right with Billy Pilgrim. He was grateful. He was glad.
Billy dozed, awakened in the prison hospital again. The sun was high. Outside were Golgotha sounds of strong men digging holes for upright timbers in hard, hard ground. Englishmen were building themselves a new latrine. They had abandoned their old latrine to the Americans—and their theater, the place where the feast had been held,
too. Six Englishmen staggered through a hospital with a pool table on which several
  
mattresses were piled. They were transferring it to living quarters attached to the hospital. They were followed by an Englishman dragging his mattress and carrying a dartboard.
The man with the dartboard was the Blue Fairy Godmother who had injured little Paul Lazzaro. He stopped by Lazzaro’s bed, asked Lazzaro how he was.
Lazzaro told him he was going to have him killed after the war.
“Oh?”
“You made a big mistake,” said Lazzaro. “Anybody touches me, he better kill me, or I’m gonna have him killed.”
The Blue Fairy Godmother knew something about killing. He gave Lazzaro a careful smile. “There is still time for me to kill you,” he said, “if you really persuade me that it’s the sensible thing to do.”
“Why don’t you go fuck yourself?”
“Don’t think I haven’t tried,” the Blue Fairy Godmother answered.
The Blue Fairy Godmother left, amused and patronizing. When he was gone, Lazzaro promised Billy and poor old Edgar Derby that he was going to have revenge, and that revenge was sweet.
“It’s the sweetest thing there is,” said Lazzaro. “People fuck with me,” he said, “and Jesus Christ are they ever fucking sorry. I laugh like hell. I don’t care if it’s a guy or a dame. If the President of the United States fucked around with me, I’d 􏰀x him good. You should have seen what I did to a dog one time.”
“A dog?” said Billy.
“Son of a bitch bit me. So I got me some steak, and I got me the spring out of a clock. I cut that spring up in little pieces. I put points on the ends of the pieces. They were sharp as razor blades. I stuck ’em into the steak—way inside. And I went past where they had the dog tied up. He wanted to bite me again. I said to him, ‘Come on, doggie—let’s be friends. Let’s not be enemies any more. I’m not mad.’ He believed me.”
“He did?”
“I threw him the steak. He swallowed it down in one big gulp. I waited around for ten minutes.” Now Lazzaro’s eyes twinkled. “Blood started coming out of his mouth. He started crying, and he rolled on the ground, as though the knives were on the outside of him instead of on the inside of him. Then he tried to bite out his own insides. I laughed, and I said to him, ‘You got the right idea now. Tear your own guts out, boy. That’s me in there with all those knives.’” So it goes.
“Anybody ever asks you what the sweetest thing in life is—” said Lazzaro, “it’s revenge.”
  
When Dresden was destroyed later on, incidentally, Lazzaro did not exult. He didn’t have anything against the Germans, he said. Also, he said he liked to take his enemies one at a time. He was proud of never having hurt an innocent bystander. “Nobody ever got it from Lazzaro,” he said, “who didn’t have it coming.”
Poor old Edgar Derby, the high school teacher, got into the conversation now. He asked Lazzaro if he planned to feed the Blue Fairy Godmother clock springs and steak.
“Shit,” said Lazzaro.
“He’s a pretty big man,” said Derby, who, of course, was a pretty big man himself. “Size don’t mean a thing.”
“You’re going to shoot him?”
“I’m gonna have him shot,” said Lazzaro. “He’ll get home after the war. He’ll be a big hero. The dames’ll be climbing all over him. He’ll settle down. A couple of years’ll go by. And then one day there’ll be a knock on his door. He’ll answer the door, and there’ll be a stranger out there. The stranger’ll ask him if he’s so-and-so. When he says he is, the stranger’ll say, ‘Paul Lazzaro sent me.’ And he’ll pull out a gun and shoot his pecker o􏰃. The stranger’ll let him think a couple of seconds about who Paul Lazzaro is and what life’s gonna be like without a pecker. Then he’ll shoot him once in the guts and walk away.” So it goes.
Lazzaro said that he could have anybody in the world killed for a thousand dollars plus traveling expenses. He had a list in his head, he said.
Derby asked him who all was on the list, and Lazzaro said, “Just make fucking sure you don’t get on it. Just don’t cross me, that’s all.” There was a silence, and then he added, “And don’t cross my friends.”
“You have friends?” Derby wanted to know.
“In the war?” said Lazzaro. “Yeah—I had a friend in the war. He’s dead.” So it goes. “That’s too bad.”
Lazzaro’s eyes were twinkling again. “Yeah. He was my buddy on the boxcar. His name was Roland Weary. He died in my arms.” Now he pointed to Billy with his one mobile hand. “He died on account of this silly cocksucker here. So I promised him I’d have this silly cocksucker shot after the war.”
Lazzaro erased with his hand anything Billy Pilgrim might be about to say. “Just forget about it, kid,” he said. “Enjoy life while you can. Nothing’s gonna happen for maybe 􏰀ve, ten, 􏰀fteen, twenty years. But lemme give you a piece of advice: Whenever the doorbell rings, have somebody else answer the door.”
   
Billy Pilgrim says now that this really is the way he is going to die, too. As a time- traveler, he has seen his own death many times, has described it to a tape recorder. The tape is locked up with his will and some other valuables in his safe-deposit box at the Ilium Merchants National Bank and Trust, he says.
I, Billy Pilgrim, the tape begins, will die, have died, and always will die on February thirteenth, 1976.
At the time of his death, he says, he is in Chicago to address a large crowd on the subject of 􏰁ying saucers and the true nature of time. His home is still in Ilium. He has had to cross three international boundaries in order to reach Chicago. The United States of America has been Balkanized, has been divided into twenty petty nations so that it will never again be a threat to world peace. Chicago has been hydrogen-bombed by angry Chinamen. So it goes. It is all brand new.
Billy is speaking before a capacity audience in a baseball park, which is covered by a geodesic dome. The 􏰁ag of the country is behind him. It is a Hereford bull on a 􏰀eld of green. Billy predicts his own death within an hour. He laughs about it, invites the crowd to laugh with him. “It is high time I was dead,” he says. “Many years ago,” he said, “a certain man promised to have me killed. He is an old man now, living not far from here. He has read all the publicity associated with my appearance in your fair city. He is insane. Tonight he will keep his promise.”
There are protests from the crowd.
Billy Pilgrim rebukes them. “If you protest, if you think that death is a terrible thing, then you have not understood a word I’ve said.” Now he closes his speech as he closes every speech—with these words: “Farewell, hello, farewell, hello.”
There are police around him as he leaves the stage. They are there to protect him from the crush of popularity. No threats on his life have been made since 1945. The police o􏰃er to stay with him. They are 􏰁oridly willing to stand in a circle around him all night, with their zap guns drawn.
“No, no,” says Billy serenely. “It is time for you to go home to your wives and children, and it is time for me to be dead for a little while—and then live again.” At that moment, Billy’s high forehead is in the cross hairs of a high-powered laser gun. It is aimed at him from the darkened press box. In the next moment, Billy Pilgrim is dead. So it goes.
So Billy experiences death for a while. It is simply violet light and a hum. There isn’t anybody else there. Not even Billy Pilgrim is there.
Then he swings back into life again, all the way back to an hour after his life was threatened by Lazzaro—in 1945. He has been told to get out of his hospital bed and dress, that he is well. He and Lazzaro and poor old Edgar Derby are to join their fellows in the theater. There they will choose a leader for themselves by secret ballot in a free election.
 
 Billy and Lazzaro and poor old Edgar Derby crossed the prison yard to the theater now. Billy was carrying his little coat as though it were a lady’s mu􏰃. It was wrapped around and around his hands. He was the central clown in an unconscious travesty of that famous oil painting, “The Spirit of ’76.”
Edgar Derby was writing letters home in his head, telling his wife that he was alive and well, that she shouldn’t worry, that the war was nearly over, that he would soon be home.
Lazzaro was talking to himself about people he was going to have killed after the war, and rackets he was going to work, and women he was going to make fuck him, whether they wanted to or not. If he had been a dog in a city, a policeman would have shot him and sent his head to a laboratory, to see if he had rabies. So it goes.
As they neared the theater, they came upon an Englishman who was hacking a groove in the Earth with the heel of his boot. He was marking the boundary between the American and English sections of the compound. Billy and Lazzaro and Derby didn’t have to ask what the line meant. It was a familiar symbol from childhood.
The theater was paved with American bodies that nestled like spoons. Most of the Americans were in stupors or asleep. Their guts were fluttering, dry.
“Close the fucking door,” somebody said to Billy. “Were you born in a barn?”
Billy closed it, took a hand from his mu􏰃, touched a stove. It was as cold as ice. The stage was still set for Cinderella. Azure curtains hung from arches which were shocking pink. There were golden thrones and the dummy clock, whose hands were set at midnight. Cinderella’s slippers, which were airman’s boots painted silver, were capsized side by side under a golden throne.
Billy and poor old Edgar Derby and Lazzaro had been in the hospital when the British passed out blankets and mattresses, so they had none. They had to improvise. The only space open to them was up on the stage, and they went up there, pulled the azure curtains down, made nests.
Billy, curled in his azure nest, found himself staring at Cinderella’s silver boots under a throne. And then he remembered that his shoes were ruined, that he needed boots. He hated to get out of his nest, but he forced himself to do it. He crawled to the boots on all fours, sat, tried them on.
The boots 􏰀t perfectly. Billy Pilgrim was Cinderella, and Cinderella was Billy Pilgrim.
Somewhere in there was a lecture on personal hygiene by the head Englishman, and then a free election. At least half the Americans went on snoozing through it all. The
   
Englishman got up on the stage, and he rapped on the arm of a throne with a swagger stick, called, “Lads, lads, lads—can I have your attention, please?” And so on.
What the Englishman said about survival was this: “If you stop taking pride in your appearance, you will very soon die.” He said that he had seen several men die in the following way: “They ceased to stand up straight, then ceased to shave or wash, then ceased to get out of bed, then ceased to talk, then died. There is this much to be said for it: it is evidently a very easy and painless way to go.” So it goes.
The Englishman said that he, when captured, had made and kept the following vows to himself: To brush his teeth twice a day, to shave once a day, to wash his face and hands before every meal and after going to the latrine, to polish his shoes once a day, to exercise for at least half an hour each morning and then move his bowels, and to look into a mirror frequently, frankly evaluating his appearance, particularly with respect to posture.
Billy Pilgrim heard all this while lying in his nest. He looked not at the Englishman’s face but his ankles.
“I envy you lads,” said the Englishman.
Somebody laughed. Billy wondered what the joke was.
“You lads are leaving this afternoon for Dresden—a beautiful city, I’m told. You won’t be cooped up like us. You’ll be out where the life is, and the food is certain to be more plentiful than here. If I may inject a personal note: It has been 􏰀ve years now since I have seen a tree or 􏰁ower or woman or child—or a dog or a cat or a place of entertainment, or a human being doing useful work of any kind.
“You needn’t worry about bombs, by the way. Dresden is an open city. It is undefended, and contains no war industries or troop concentrations of any importance.”
•••
Somewhere in there, old Edgar Derby was elected head American. The Englishman called for nominations from the 􏰁oor, and there weren’t any. So he nominated Derby, praising him for his maturity and long experience in dealing with people. There were no further nominations, so the nominations were closed.
“All in favor?”
Two or three people said, “Aye.”
Then poor old Derby made a speech. He thanked the Englishman for his good advice, said he meant to follow it exactly. He said he was sure that all the other Americans would do the same. He said that his primary responsibility now was to make damn well sure that everybody got home safely.
  “Go take a 􏰁ying fuck at a rolling doughnut,” murmured Paul Lazzaro in his azure

nest. “Go take a flying fuck at the moon.”
 The temperature climbed startlingly that day. The noontime was balmy. The Germans brought soup and bread in two-wheeled carts which were pulled by Russians. The Englishman sent over real co􏰃ee and sugar and marmalade and cigarettes and cigars, and the doors of the theater were left open, so the warmth could get in.
The Americans began to feel much better. They were able to hold their food. And then it was time to go to Dresden. The Americans marched fairly stylishly out of the British compound. Billy Pilgrim again led the parade. He had silver boots now, and a mu􏰃, and a piece of azure curtain which he wore like a toga. Billy still had a beard. So did poor old Edgar Derby, who was beside him. Derby was imagining letters to home, his lips working tremulously:
Dear Margaret—We are leaving for Dresden today. Don’t worry. It will never be bombed. It is an open city. There was an election at noon, and guess what? And so on.
They came to the prison railroad yard again. They had arrived on only two cars. They would depart far more comfortably on four. They saw the dead hobo again. He was frozen sti􏰃 in the weeds beside the track. He was in a fetal position, trying even in death to nestle like a spoon with others. There were no others now. He was nestling with thin air and cinders. Somebody had taken his boots. His bare feet were blue and ivory. It was all right, somehow, his being dead. So it goes.
•••
The trip to Dresden was a lark. It took only two hours. Shriveled little bellies were full. Sunlight and mild air came in through the ventilators. There were plenty of smokes from the Englishmen.
The Americans arrived in Dresden at 􏰀ve in the afternoon. The boxcar doors were opened, and the doorways framed the loveliest city that most of the Americans had ever seen. The skyline was intricate and voluptuous and enchanted and absurd. It looked like a Sunday school picture of Heaven to Billy Pilgrim.
Somebody behind him in the boxcar said, “Oz.” That was I. That was me. The only other city I’d ever seen was Indianapolis, Indiana.
Every other big city in Germany had been bombed and burned ferociously. Dresden had not su􏰃ered so much as a cracked windowpane. Sirens went o􏰃 every day, screamed like hell, and people went down into cellars and listened to radios there. The planes were always bound for someplace else—Leipzig, Chemnitz, Plauen, places like that. So it goes.
Steam radiators still whistled cheerily in Dresden. Streetcars clanged. Telephones rang and were answered. Lights went on and o􏰃 when switches were clicked. There were theaters and restaurants. There was a zoo. The principal enterprises of the city
 
were medicine and food-processing and the making of cigarettes.
People were going home from work now in the late afternoon. They were tired.
Eight Dresdeners crossed the steel spaghetti of the railroad yard. They were wearing new uniforms. They had been sworn into the army the day before. They were boys and men past middle age, and two veterans who had been shot to pieces in Russia. Their assignment was to guard one hundred American prisoners of war, who would work as contract labor. A grandfather and his grandson were in the squad. The grandfather was an architect.
The eight were grim as they approached the boxcars containing their wards. They knew what sick and foolish soldiers they themselves appeared to be. One of them actually had an arti􏰀cial leg, and carried not only a loaded ri􏰁e but a cane. Still—they were expected to earn obedience and respect from tall, cocky, murderous American infantrymen who had just come from all the killing at the front.
And then they saw bearded Billy Pilgrim in his blue toga and silver shoes, with his hands in a mu􏰃. He looked at least sixty years old. Next to Billy was little Paul Lazzaro with a broken arm. He was 􏰀zzing with rabies. Next to Lazzaro was the poor old high school teacher, Edgar Derby, mournfully pregnant with patriotism and middle age and imaginary wisdom. And so on.
The eight ridiculous Dresdeners ascertained that these hundred ridiculous creatures really were American 􏰀ghting men fresh from the front. They smiled, and then they laughed. Their terror evaporated. There was nothing to be afraid of. Here were more crippled human beings, more fools like themselves. Here was light opera.
So out of the gate of the railroad yard and into the streets of Dresden marched the light opera. Billy Pilgrim was the star. He led the parade. Thousands of people were on the sidewalks, going home from work. They were watery and putty-colored, having eaten mostly potatoes during the past two years. They had expected no blessings beyond the mildness of the day. Suddenly—here was fun.
Billy did not meet many of the eyes that found him so entertaining. He was enchanted by the architecture of the city. Merry amoretti wove garlands above windows. Roguish fauns and naked nymphs peeked down at Billy from festooned cornices. Stone monkeys frisked among scrolls and seashells and bamboo.
Billy, with his memories of the future, knew that the city would be smashed to smithereens and then burned—in about thirty more days. He knew, too, that most of the people watching him would soon be dead. So it goes.
And Billy worked his hands in his mu􏰃 as he marched. His 􏰀ngertips, working there in the hot darkness of the mu􏰃, wanted to know what the two lumps in the lining of the little impresario’s coat were. The 􏰀ngertips got inside the lining. They palpated the
  
lumps, the pea-shaped thing and the horseshoe-shaped thing. The parade had to halt by a busy corner. The traffic light was red.
There at the corner, in the front rank of pedestrians, was a surgeon who had been operating all day. He was a civilian, but his posture was military. He had served in two world wars. The sight of Billy o􏰃ended him, especially after he learned from the guards that Billy was an American. It seemed to him that Billy was in abominable taste, supposed that Billy had gone to a lot of silly trouble to costume himself just so.
The surgeon spoke English, and he said to Billy, “I take it you 􏰀nd war a very comical thing.”
Billy looked at him vaguely. Billy had lost track momentarily of where he was or how he had gotten there. He had no idea that people thought he was clowning. It was Fate, of course, which had costumed him—Fate, and a feeble will to survive.
“Did you expect us to laugh?” the surgeon asked him.
The surgeon was demanding some sort of satisfaction. Billy was mysti􏰀ed. Billy wanted to be friendly, to help, if he could, but his resources were meager. His 􏰀ngers now held the two objects from the lining of the coat. Billy decided to show the surgeon what they were.
“You thought we would enjoy being mocked?” the surgeon said. “And do you feel proud to represent America as you do?”
Billy withdrew a hand from his mu􏰃, held it under the surgeon’s nose. On his palm rested a two-carat diamond and a partial denture. The denture was an obscene little artifact—silver and pearl and tangerine. Billy smiled.
The parade pranced, staggered and reeled to the gate of the Dresden slaughterhouse, and then it went inside. The slaughterhouse wasn’t a busy place any more. Almost all the hooved animals in Germany had been killed and eaten and excreted by human beings, mostly soldiers. So it goes.
The Americans were taken to the 􏰀fth building inside the gate. It was a one-story cement-block cube with sliding doors in front and back. It had been built as a shelter for pigs about to be butchered. Now it was going to serve as a home away from home for one hundred American prisoners of war. There were bunks in there, and two potbellied stoves and a water tap. Behind it was a latrine, which was a one-rail fence with buckets under it.
There was a big number over the door of the building. The number was five. Before the Americans could go inside, their only English-speaking guard told them to memorize their simple address, in case they got lost in the big city. Their address was this: “Schlachthof-fünf.” Schlachthof meant slaughterhouse. Fun/was good old five.
  
7
BILLY PILGRIM got onto a chartered airplane in Ilium twenty-􏰀ve years after that. He
knew it was going to crash, but he didn’t want to make a fool of himself by saying so. It was supposed to carry Billy and twenty-eight other optometrists to a convention in Montreal.
His wife, Valencia, was outside, and his father-in-law, Lionel Merble, was strapped to the seat beside him.
Lionel Merble was a machine. Tralfamadorians, of course, say that every creature and plant in the Universe is a machine. It amuses them that so many Earthlings are offended by the idea of being machines.
Outside the plane, the machine named Valencia Merble Pilgrim was eating a Peter Paul Mound Bar and waving bye-bye.
The plane took o􏰃 without incident. The moment was structured that way. There was a barbershop quartet on board. They were optometrists, too. They called themselves “The Febs,” which was an acronym for “Four-eyed Bastards.”
When the plane was safely aloft, the machine that was Billy’s father-in-law asked the quartet to sing his favorite song. They knew what song he meant, and they sang it, and it went like this:
In my prison cell I sit,
With my britches full of shit,
And my balls are bouncing gently on the floor. And I see the bloody snag
When she bit me in the bag.
Oh, I’ll never fuck a Polack any more.
Billy’s father-in-law laughed and laughed at that, and he begged the quartet to sing the other Polish song he liked so much. So they sang a song from the Pennsylvania coal mines that
Me and Mike, ve vork in mine. Holy shit, ve have good time. Vunce a veek ve get our pay. Holy shit, no vork next day.
Speaking of people from Poland: Billy Pilgrim accidentally saw a Pole hanged in public, about three days after Billy got to Dresden. Billy just happened to be walking to
  
work with some others shortly after sunrise, and they came to a gallows and a small crowd in front of a soccer stadium. The Pole was a farm laborer who was being hanged for having had sexual intercourse with a German woman. So it goes.
Billy, knowing the plane was going to crash pretty soon, closed his eyes, traveled in time back to 1944. He was back in the forest in Luxembourg again—with the Three Musketeers. Roland Weary was shaking him, bonking his head against a tree. “You guys go on without me,” said Billy Pilgrim.
The barbershop quartet on the airplane was singing “Wait Till the Sun Shines, Nelly,” when the plane smacked into the top of Sugarbush Mountain in Vermont. Everybody was killed but Billy and the copilot. So it goes.
The people who 􏰀rst got to the crash scene were young Austrian ski instructors from the famous ski resort below. They spoke to each other in German as they went from body to body. They wore black wind masks with two holes for their eyes and a red topknot. They looked like golliwogs, like white people pretending to be black for the laughs they could get.
Billy had a fractured skull, but he was still conscious. He didn’t know where he was. His lips were working, and one of the golliwogs put his ear close to them to hear what might be his dying words.
Billy thought the golliwog had something to do with World War Two, and he whispered to him his address: “Schlachthof-fünf.”
Billy was brought down Sugarbush Mountain on a toboggan. The golliwogs controlled it with ropes and yodeled melodiously for right-of-way. Near the bottom, the trail swooped around the pylons of a chair lift. Billy looked up at all the young people in bright elastic clothing and enormous boots and goggles, bombed out of their skulls with snow, swinging through the sky in yellow chairs. He supposed that they were part of an amazing new phase of World War Two. It was all right with him. Everything was pretty much all right with Billy.
He was taken to a small private hospital. A famous brain surgeon came up from Boston and operated on him for three hours. Billy was unconscious for two days after that, and he dreamed millions of things, some of them true. The true things were time- travel.
One of the true things was his 􏰀rst evening in the slaughterhouse. He and poor old Edgar Derby were pushing an empty two-wheeled cart down a dirt lane between empty
     
pens for animals. They were going to a communal kitchen for supper for all. They were guarded by a sixteen-year-old German named Werner Gluck. The axles of the cart were greased with the fat of dead animals. So it goes.
The sun had just gone down, and its afterglow was backlighting the city, which formed low cliffs around the bucolic void to the idle stockyards. The city was blacked out because bombers might come, so Billy didn’t get to see Dresden do one of the most cheerful things a city is capable of doing when the sun goes down, which is to wink its lights on one by one.
There was a broad river to re􏰁ect those lights, which would have made their nighttime winkings very pretty indeed. It was the Elbe.
Werner Gluck, the young guard, was a Dresden boy. He had never been in the slaughterhouse before, so he wasn’t sure where the kitchen was. He was tall and weak like Billy, might have been a younger brother of his. They were, in fact, distant cousins, something they never found out. Gluck was armed with an incredibly heavy musket, a single-shot museum piece with an octagonal barrel and a smooth bore. He had 􏰀xed his bayonet. It was like a long knitting needle. It had no blood gutters.
Gluck led the way to a building that he thought might contain the kitchen, and he opened the sliding door in its side. There wasn’t a kitchen in there, though. There was a dressing room adjacent to a communal shower, and there was a lot of steam. In the steam were about thirty teen-age girls with no clothes on. They were German refugees from Breslau, which had been tremendously bombed. They had just arrived in Dresden, too. Dresden was jammed with refugees.
There those girls were with all their private parts bare, for anybody to see. And there in the doorway were Gluck and Derby and Pilgrim—the childish soldier and the poor old high school teacher and the clown in his toga and silver shoes—staring. The girls screamed. They covered themselves with their hands and turned their backs and so on, and made themselves utterly beautiful.
Werner Gluck, who had never seen a naked woman before, closed the door. Billy had never seen one, either. It was nothing new to Derby.
When the three fools found the communal kitchen, whose main job was to make lunch for workers in the slaughterhouse, everybody had gone home but one woman who had been waiting for them impatiently. She was a war widow. So it goes. She had her hat and coat on. She wanted to go home, too, even though there wasn’t anybody there. Her white gloves were laid out side by side on the zinc counter top.
She had two big cans of soup for the Americans. It was simmering over low 􏰀res on the gas range. She had stacks of loaves of black bread, too.
  She asked Gluck if he wasn’t awfully young to be in the army. He admitted that he

was.She asked Edgar Derby if he wasn’t awfully old to be in the army. He said he was.
She asked Billy Pilgrim what he was supposed to be, Billy said he didn’t know. He was just trying to keep warm.
“All the real soldiers are dead,” she said. It was true. So it goes.
Another true thing that Billy saw while he was unconscious in Vermont was the work that he and the others had to do in Dresden during the month before the city was destroyed. They washed windows and swept 􏰁oors and cleaned lavatories and put jars into boxes and sealed cardboard boxes in a factory that made malt syrup. The syrup was enriched with vitamins and minerals. The syrup was for pregnant women.
The syrup tasted like thin honey laced with hickory smoke, and everybody who worked in the factory secretly spooned it all day long. They weren’t pregnant, but they needed vitamins and minerals, too. Billy didn’t spoon syrup on his 􏰀rst day at work, but lots of other Americans did.
Billy spooned it on his second day. There were spoons hidden all over the factory, on rafters, in drawers, behind radiators, and so on. They had been hidden in haste by persons who had been spooning syrup, who had heard somebody else coming. Spooning was a crime.
On his second day, Billy was cleaning behind a radiator, and he found a spoon. To his back was a vat of syrup that was cooling. The only other person who could see Billy and his spoon was poor old Edgar Derby, who was washing a window outside. The spoon was a tablespoon. Billy thrust it into the vat, turned it around and around, making a gooey lollipop. He thrust it into his mouth.
A moment went by, and then every cell in Billy’s body shook him with ravenous gratitude and applause.
There were di􏰂dent raps on the factory window. Derby was out there, having seen all. He wanted some syrup, too.
So Billy made a lollipop for him. He opened the window. He stuck the lollipop into poor old Derby’s gaping mouth. A moment passed, and then Derby burst into tears. Billy closed the window and hid the sticky spoon. Somebody was coming.
  
8
THE AMERICANS in the slaughterhouse had a very interesting visitor two days before
Dresden was destroyed. He was Howard W. Campbell, Jr., an American who had become a Nazi. Campbell was the one who had written the monograph about the shabby behavior of American prisoners of war. He wasn’t doing more research about prisoners now. He had come to the slaughterhouse to recruit men for a German military unit called “The Free American Corps.” Campbell was the inventor and commander of the unit, which was supposed to fight only on the Russian front.
Campbell was an ordinary-looking man, but he was extravagantly costumed in a uniform of his own design. He wore a white ten-gallon hat and black cowboy boots decorated with swastikas and stars. He was sheathed in a blue body stocking which had yellow stripes running from his armpits to his ankles. His shoulder patch was a silhouette of Abraham Lincoln’s pro􏰀le on a 􏰀eld of pale green. He had a broad armband which was red, with a blue swastika in a circle of white.
He was explaining this armband now in the cement-block hog barn.
Billy Pilgrim had a boiling case of heartburn, since he had been spooning malt syrup all day long at work. The heartburn brought tears to his eyes, so that his image of Campbell was distorted by jiggling lenses of salt water.
“Blue is for the American sky,” Campbell was saying. “White is for the race that pioneered the continent, drained the swamps and cleared the forests and built the roads and bridges. Red is for the blood of American patriots which was shed so gladly in years gone by.”
Campbell’s audience was sleepy. It had worked hard at the syrup factory, and then it had marched a long way home in the cold. It was skinny and hollow-eyed. Its skins were beginning to blossom with small sores. So were its mouths and throats and intestines. The malt syrup it spooned at the factory contained only a few of the vitamins and minerals every Earthling needs.
Campbell o􏰃ered the Americans food now, steaks and mashed potatoes and gravy and mince pie, if they would join the Free American Corps. “Once the Russians are defeated,” he went on, “you will be repatriated through Switzerland.”
There was no response.
“You’re going to have to 􏰀ght the Communists sooner or later,” said Campbell. “Why not get it over with now?”
   
 And then it developed that Campbell was not going to go unanswered after all. Poor old Derby, the doomed high school teacher, lumbered to his feet for what was probably the 􏰀nest moment in his life. There are almost no characters in this story, and almost no dramatic confrontations, because most of the people in it are so sick and so much the listless playthings of enormous forces. One of the main effects of war, after all, is that people are discouraged from being characters. But old Derby was a character
now.His stance was that of a punch-drunk 􏰀ghter. His head was down. His 􏰀sts were out front, waiting for information and battle plan. Derby raised his head, called Campbell a snake. He corrected that. He said that snakes couldn’t help being snakes, and that Campbell, who could help being what he was, was something much lower than a snake or a rat—or even a blood-filled tick.
Campbell smiled.
Derby spoke movingly of the American form of government, with freedom and justice and opportunities and fair play for all. He said there wasn’t a man there who wouldn’t gladly die for those ideals.
He spoke of the brotherhood between the American and the Russian people, and how those two nations were going to crush the disease of Nazism, which wanted to infect the whole world.
The air-raid sirens of Dresden howled mournfully.
The Americans and their guards and Campbell took shelter in an echoing meat locker which was hollowed in living rock under the slaughterhouse. There was an iron staircase with iron doors at the top and bottom.
Down in the locker were a few cattle and sheep and pigs and horses hanging from iron hooks. So it goes. The locker had empty hooks for thousands more. It was naturally cool. There was no refrigeration. There was candlelight. The locker was whitewashed and smelled of carbolic acid. There were benches along a wall. The Americans went to these, brushing away flakes of whitewash before they sat down.
Howard W. Campbell, Jr., remained standing, like the guards. He talked to the guards in excellent German. He had written many popular German plays and poems in his time, and had married a famous German actress named Resi North. She was dead now, had been killed while entertaining troops in the Crimea. So it goes.
Nothing happened that night. It was the next night that about one hundred and thirty thousand people in Dresden would die. So it goes. Billy dozed in the meat locker. He found himself engaged again, word for word, gesture for gesture, in the argument with his daughter with which this tale began.
“Father,” she said. “What are we going to do with you?” And so on. “You know who I could just kill?” she asked.
 
“Who could you kill?” said Billy.
“That Kilgore Trout.”
Kilgore Trout was and is a science-􏰀ction writer, of course. Billy had not only read dozens of books by Trout—he has also become Trout’s friend, to the extent that anyone can become a friend of Trout, who is a bitter man.
Trout lives in a rented basement in Ilium, about two miles from Billy’s nice white home. He himself has no idea how many novels he has written—possibly seventy-􏰀ve of the things. Not one of them has made money. So Trout keeps body and soul together as a circulation man for the Ilium Gazette, manages newspaper delivery boys, bullies and flatters and cheats little kids.
Billy met him for the 􏰀rst time in 1964. Billy drove his Cadillac down a back alley in Ilium, and he found his way blocked by dozens of boys and their bicycles. A meeting was in progress. The boys were harangued by a man in a full beard. He was cowardly and dangerous, and obviously very good at his job. Trout was sixty-two years old back then. He was telling the kids to get o􏰃 their dead butts and get their daily customers to subscribe to the fucking Sunday edition, too. He said that whoever sold the most Sunday subscriptions during the next two months would get a free trip for himself and his parents to Martha’s fucking Vineyard for a week, all expenses paid.
And so on.
One of the newspaper boys was actually a newspaper girl. She was electrified.
Trout’s paranoid face was terribly familiar to Billy, who had seen it on the jackets of so many books. But, coming upon that face suddenly in a home-town alley, Billy could not guess why the face was familiar. Billy thought maybe he had known this cracked messiah in Dresden somewhere. Trout certainly looked like a prisoner of war.
And then the newspaper girl held up her hand. “Mr. Trout—” she said, “if I win, can I take my sister, too?”
“Hell no,” said Kilgore Trout. “You think money grows on trees?”
Trout, incidentally, had written a book about a money tree. It had twenty-dollar bills for leaves. Its 􏰁owers were government bonds. Its fruit was diamonds. It attracted human beings who killed each other around the roots and made very good fertilizer.
So it goes.
Billy Pilgrim parked his Cadillac in the alley, and waited for the meeting to end. When the meeting broke up, there was still one boy Trout had to deal with. The boy wanted to quit because the work was so hard and the hours were so long and the pay was so small. Trout was concerned, because, if the boy really quit, Trout would have to
   
deliver the boy’s route himself, until he could find another sucker.
“What are you?” Trout asked the boy scornfully. “Some kind of gutless wonder?”
This, too, was the title of a book by Trout, The Gutless Wonder. It was about a robot who had bad breath, who became popular after his halitosis was cured. But what made the story remarkable, since it was written in 1932, was that it predicted the widespread use of burning jellied gasoline on human beings.
It was dropped on them from airplanes. Robots did the dropping. They had no conscience, and no circuits which would allow them to imagine what was happening to the people on the ground.
Trout’s leading robot looked like a human being, and could talk and dance and so on, and go out with girls. And nobody held it against him that he dropped jellied gasoline on people. But they found his halitosis unforgivable. But then he cleared that up, and he was welcomed to the human race.
Trout lost his argument with the boy who wanted to quit. He told the boy about all the millionaires who had carried newspapers as boys, and the boy replied: “Yeah—but I bet they quit after a week, it’s such a royal screwing.”
And the boy left his full newspaper bag at Trout’s feet, with the customer book on top. It was up to Trout to deliver these papers. He didn’t have a car. He didn’t even have a bicycle, and he was scared to death of dogs.
Somewhere a big dog barked.
As Trout lugubriously slung the bag from his shoulder, Billy Pilgrim approached him. “Mr. Trout—?”
“Yes?”
“Are—are you Kilgore Trout?”
“Yes.” Trout supposed that Billy had some complaint about the way his newspapers were being delivered. He did not think of himself as a writer for the simple reason that the world had never allowed him to think of himself in this way.
“The—the writer?” said Billy.
“The what?”
Billy was certain that he had made a mistake. “There’s a writer named Kilgore Trout.”
“There is?” Trout looked foolish and dazed.
“You never heard of him?”
Trout shook his head. “Nobody—nobody ever did.”
  Billy helped Trout deliver his papers, driving him from house to house in the

Cadillac. Billy was the responsible one, 􏰀nding the houses, checking them o􏰃. Trout’s mind was blown. He had never met a fan before, and Billy was such an avid fan.
Trout told him that he had never seen a book of his advertised, reviewed, or on sale. “All these years,” he said, “I’ve been opening the window and making love to the world.”
“You must surely have gotten letters,” said Billy. “I’ve felt like writing you letters many times.”
Trout held up a single finger. “One.”
“Was it enthusiastic?”
“It was insane. The writer said I should be President of the World.”
It turned out that the person who had written this letter was Eliot Rosewater, Billy’s friend in the veterans’ hospital near Lake Placid. Billy told Trout about Rosewater.
“My God—I thought he was about fourteen years old,” said Trout. “A full grown man—a captain in the war.”
“He writes like a fourteen-year-old,” said Kilgore Trout.
Billy invited Trout to his eighteenth wedding anniversary which was only two days hence. Now the party was in progress.
Trout was in Billy’s dining room, gobbling canapés. He was talking with a mouthful of Philadelphia cream cheese and salmon roe to an optometrist’s wife. Everybody at the party was associated with optometry in some way, except Trout. And he alone was without glasses. He was making a great hit. Everybody was thrilled to have a real author at the party, even though they had never read his books.
Trout was talking to a Maggie White, who had given up being a dental assistant to become a home-maker for an optometrist. She was very pretty. The last book she had read was Ivanhoe.
Billy Pilgrim stood nearby, listening. He was palpating something in his pocket. It was a present he was about to give his wife, a white satin box containing a star sapphire cocktail ring. The ring was worth eight hundred dollars.
The adulation that Trout was receiving, mindless and illiterate as it was, a􏰃ected Trout like marijuana. He was happy and loud and impudent.
“I’m afraid I don’t read as much as I ought to,” said Maggie.
“We’re all afraid of something,” Trout replied. “I’m afraid of cancer and rats and
Doberman pinschers.”
“I should know, but I don’t, so I have to ask,” said Maggie, “what’s the most famous thing you ever wrote?”
  
“It was about a funeral for a great French chef.”
“That sounds interesting.”
“All the great chefs in the world are there. It’s a beautiful ceremony.” Trout was making this up as he went along. “Just before the casket is closed, the mourners sprinkle parsley and paprika on the deceased.” So it goes.
“Did that really happen?” said Maggie White. She was a dull person, but a sensational invitation to make babies. Men looked at her and wanted to 􏰀ll her up with babies right away. She hadn’t had even one baby yet. She used birth control.
“Of course it happened,” Trout told her. “If I wrote something that hadn’t really happened, and I tried to sell it, I could go to jail. That’s fraud.”
Maggie believed him. “I’d never thought about that before.”
“Think about it now.”
“It’s like advertising. You have to tell the truth in advertising, or you get in trouble.”
“Exactly. The same body of law applies.”
“Do you think you might put us in a book sometime?” “I put everything that happens to me in books.”
“I guess I better be careful what I say.”
“That’s right. And I’m not the only one who’s listening. God is listening, too. And on Judgment Day he’s going to tell you all the things you said and did. If it turns out they’re bad things instead of good things, that’s too bad for you, because you’ll burn forever and ever. The burning never stops hurting.”
Poor Maggie turned gray. She believed that, too, and was petrified.
Kilgore Trout laughed uproariously. A salmon egg 􏰁ew out of his mouth and landed
in Maggie’s cleavage.
Now an optometrist called for attention. He proposed a toast to Billy and Valencia, whose anniversary it was. According to plan, the barbershop quartet of optometrists, “The Febs,” sang while people drank and Billy and Valencia put their arms around each other, just glowed. Everybody’s eyes were shining. The song was “That Old Gang of Mine.”
Gee, that song went, but I’d give the world to see that old gang of mine. And so on. A little later it said, So long forever, old fellows and gals, so long forever old sweethearts and pals—God bless ’em—And so on.
Unexpectedly, Billy Pilgrim found himself upset by the song and the occasion. He had never had an old gang, old sweethearts and pals, but he missed one anyway, as the
  
quartet made slow, agonized experiments with chords—chords intentionally sour, sourer still, unbearably sour, and then a chord that was su􏰃ocatingly sweet, and then some sour ones again. Billy had powerful psychosomatic responses to the changing chords. His mouth 􏰀lled with the taste of lemonade, and his face became grotesque, as though he really were being stretched on the torture engine called the rack.
He looked so peculiar that several people commented on it solicitously when the song was done. They thought he might have been having a heart attack, and Billy seemed to confirm this by going to a chair and sitting down haggardly.
There was silence.
“Oh my God,” said Valencia, leaning over him, “Billy—are you all right?” “Yes.”
“You look so awful.”
“Really—I’m O.K.” And he was, too, except that he could 􏰀nd no explanation for why the song had a􏰃ected him so grotesquely. He had supposed for years that he had no secrets from himself. Here was proof that he had a great big secret somewhere inside, and he could not imagine what it was.
People drifted away now, seeing the color return to Billy’s cheeks, seeing him smile. Valencia stayed with him, and Kilgore Trout, who had been on the fringe of the crowd, came closer, interested, shrewd.
“You looked as though you’d seen a ghost,” said Valencia.
“No,” said Billy. He hadn’t seen anything but what was really before him—the faces of the four singers, those four ordinary men, cow-eyed and mindless and anguished as they went from sweetness to sourness to sweetness again.
“Can I make a guess?” said Kilgore Trout. “You saw through a time window.” “A what?” said Valencia.
“He suddenly saw the past or the future. Am I right?”
“No,” said Billy Pilgrim. He got up, put a hand into his pocket, found the box containing the ring in there. He took out the box, gave it absently to Valencia. He had meant to give it to her at the end of the song, while everybody was watching. Only Kilgore Trout was there to see.
“For me?” said Valencia.
“Yes.”
“Oh, my God,” she said. Then she said it louder, so other people heard. They gathered around, and she opened it, and she almost screamed when she saw the sapphire with a star in it. “Oh, my God,” she said. She gave Billy a big kiss. She said,
  
“Thank you, thank you, thank you.”
 There was a lot of talk about what wonderful jewelry Billy had given to Valencia over the years. “My God—” said Maggie White, “she’s already got the biggest diamond I ever saw outside of a movie.” She was talking about the diamond Billy had brought back from the war.
The partial denture he had found inside his little impresario’s coat, incidentally, was in his cu􏰄inks box in his dresser drawer. Billy had a wonderful collection of cu􏰄inks. It was the custom of the family to give him cu􏰄inks on every Father’s Day. He was wearing Father’s Day cu􏰄inks now. They had cost over one hundred dollars. They were made out of ancient Roman coins. He had one pair of cu􏰄inks upstairs which were little roulette wheels that really worked. He had another pair which had a real thermometer in one and a real compass in the other.
Billy now moved about the party—outwardly normal. Kilgore Trout was shadowing him, keen to know what Billy had suspected or seen. Most of Trout’s novels, after all, dealt with time warps and extrasensory perception and other unexpected things. Trout believed in things like that, was greedy to have their existence proved.
“You ever put a full-length mirror on the 􏰁oor, and then have a dog stand on it?” Trout asked Billy.
“No.”
“The dog will look down, and all of a sudden he’ll realize there’s nothing under him.
He thinks he’s standing on thin air. He’ll jump a mile.” “He will?”
“That’s how you looked—as though you all of a sudden realized you were standing on thin air.”
The barbershop quartet sang again. Billy was emotionally racked again. The experience was definitely associated with those four men and not what they sang.
Here is what they sang, while Billy was pulled apart inside:
’Leven cent cotton, forty cent meat, How in the world can a poor man eat? Pray for the sunshine, ’cause it will rain. Things gettin’ worse, drivin’ all insane; Built a nice bar, painted it brown; Lightnin’ came along and burnt it down: No use talkin’, any man’s beat,
  
With ’leven cent cotton and forty cent meat. ’Leven cent cotton, a car-load of tax,
The load’s too heavy for our poor backs ...
And so on.
Billy fled upstairs in his nice white home. •••
Trout would have come upstairs with him if Billy hadn’t told him not to. Then Billy went into the upstairs bathroom, which was dark. He closed and locked the door. He left it dark, and gradually became aware that he was not alone. His son was in there.
“Dad—?” his son said in the dark. Robert, the future Green Beret, was seventeen then. Billy liked him, but didn’t know him very well. Billy couldn’t help suspecting that there wasn’t much to know about Robert.
Billy 􏰁icked on the light. Robert was sitting on the toilet with his pajama bottoms around his ankles. He was wearing an electric guitar, slung around his neck on a strap. He had just bought the guitar that day. He couldn’t play it yet and, in fact, never learned to play it. It was a nacreous pink.
“Hello, son,” said Billy Pilgrim.
Billy went into his bedroom, even though there were guests to be entertained downstairs. He lay down on his bed, turned on the Magic Fingers. The mattress trembled, drove a dog out from under the bed. The dog was Spot. Good old Spot was still alive in those days. Spot lay down again in a corner.
Billy thought hard about the e􏰃ect the quartet had had on him, and then found an association with an experience he had had long ago. He did not travel in time to the experience. He remembered it shimmeringly—as follows:
He was down in the meat locker on the night that Dresden was destroyed. There were sounds like giant footsteps above. Those were sticks of high-explosive bombs. The giants walked and walked. The meat locker was a very safe shelter. All that happened down there was an occasional shower of calcimine. The Americans and four of their guards and a few dressed carcasses were down there, and nobody else. The rest of the guards had, before the raid began, gone to the comforts of their own homes in Dresden. They were all being killed with their families.
So it goes.
The girls that Billy had seen naked were all being killed, too, in a much shallower shelter in another part of the stockyards.
  So it goes.

A guard would go to the head of the stairs every so often to see what it was like outside, then he would come down and whisper to the other guards. There was a 􏰀re- storm out there. Dresden was one big 􏰁ame. The one 􏰁ame ate everything organic, everything that would burn.
It wasn’t safe to come out of the shelter until noon the next day. When the Americans and their guards did come out, the sky was black with smoke. The sun was an angry little pinhead. Dresden was like the moon now, nothing but minerals. The stones were hot. Everybody else in the neighborhood was dead.
So it goes.
The guards drew together instinctively, rolled their eyes. They experimented with one expression and then another, said nothing, though their mouths were often open. They looked like a silent film of a barbershop quartet.
“So long forever,” they might have been singing, “old fellows and pals; So long forever, old sweethearts and pals—God bless ’em—”
“Tell me a story,” Montana Wildhack said to Billy Pilgrim in the Tralfamadorian zoo one time. They were in bed side by side. They had privacy. The canopy covered the dome. Montana was six months pregnant now, big and rosy, lazily demanding small favors from Billy from time to time. She couldn’t send Billy out for ice cream or strawberries, since the atmosphere outside the dome was cyanide, and the nearest strawberries and ice cream were millions of light years away.
She could send him to the refrigerator, which was decorated with the blank couple on the bicycle built for two—or, as now, she could wheedle, “Tell me a story, Billy boy.”
“Dresden was destroyed on the night of February 13, 1945,” Billy Pilgrim began. “We came out of our shelter the next day.” He told Montana about the four guards who, in their astonishment and grief, resembled a barbershop quartet. He told her about the stockyards with all the fenceposts gone, with roofs and windows gone—told her about seeing little logs lying around. There were people who had been caught in the 􏰀re- storm. So it goes.
Billy told her what had happened to the buildings that used to form cli􏰃s around the stockyards. They had collapsed. Their wood had been consumed, and their stones had crashed down, had tumbled against one another until they locked at last in low and graceful curves.
“It was like the moon,” said Billy Pilgrim.
The guards told the Americans to form in ranks of four, which they did. Then they had them march back to the hog barn which had been their home. Its walls still stood,
   
but its windows and roof were gone, and there was nothing inside but ashes and dollops of melted glass. It was realized then that there was no food or water, and that the survivors, if they were going to continue to survive, were going to have to climb over curve after curve on the face of the moon.
Which they did.
The curves were smooth only when seen from a distance. The people climbing them learned that they were treacherous, jagged things—hot to the touch, often unstable— eager, should certain important rocks be disturbed, to tumble some more, to form lower, more solid curves.
Nobody talked much as the expedition crossed the moon. There was nothing appropriate to say. One thing was clear: Absolutely everybody in the city was supposed to be dead, regardless of what they were, and that anybody that moved in it represented a flaw in the design. There were to be no moon men at all.
American 􏰀ghter planes came in under the smoke to see if anything was moving. They saw Billy and the rest moving down there. The planes sprayed them with machine- gun bullets, but the bullets missed. Then they saw some other people moving down by the riverside and they shot at them. They hit some of them. So it goes.
The idea was to hasten the end of the war.
Billy’s story ended very curiously in a suburb untouched by 􏰀re and explosions. The guards and the Americans came at nightfall to an inn which was open for business. There was candlelight. There were 􏰀res in three 􏰀replaces downstairs. There were empty tables and chairs waiting for anyone who might come, and empty beds with covers turned down upstairs.
There was a blind innkeeper and his sighted wife, who was the cook, and their two young daughters, who worked as waitresses and maids. This family knew that Dresden was gone. Those with eyes had seen it burn and burn, understood that they were on the edge of a desert now. Still—they had opened for business, had polished the glasses and wound the clocks and stirred the fires, and waited and waited to see who would come.
There was no great 􏰁ow of refugees from Dresden. The clocks ticked on, the 􏰀res crackled, the translucent candles dripped. And then there was a knock on the door, and in came four guards and one hundred American prisoners of war.
The innkeeper asked the guards if they had come from the city.
“Yes.”
“Are there more people coming?”
And the guards said that, on the di􏰂cult route they had chosen, they had not seen
   
another living soul. •••
The blind innkeeper said that the Americans could sleep in his stable that night, and he gave them soup and ersatz co􏰃ee and a little beer. Then he came out to the stable to listen to them bedding down in the straw.
“Good night, Americans,” he said in German. “Sleep well.”

9
HERE IS HOW Billy Pilgrim lost his wife, Valencia.
He was unconscious in the hospital in Vermont, after the airplane crashed on Sugarbush Mountain, and Valencia, having heard about the crash, was driving from Ilium to the hospital in the family Cadillac El Dorado Coupe de Ville. Valencia was hysterical, because she had been told frankly that Billy might die, or that, if he lived, he might be a vegetable.
Valencia adored Billy. She was crying and yelping so hard as she drove that she missed the correct turno􏰃 from the throughway. She applied her power brakes, and a Mercedes slammed into her from behind. Nobody was hurt, thank God, because both drivers were wearing seat belts. Thank God, thank God. The Mercedes lost only a headlight. But the rear end of the Cadillac was a body-and-fender man’s wet dream. The trunk and fenders were collapsed. The gaping trunk looked like the mouth of a village idiot who was explaining that he didn’t know anything about anything. The fenders shrugged. The bumper was at a high port arms. “Reagan for President!” a sticker on the bumper said. The back window was veined with cracks. The exhaust system rested on the pavement.
The driver of the Mercedes got out and went to Valencia, to 􏰀nd out if she was all right. She blabbed hysterically about Billy and the airplane crash, and then she put her car in gear and crossed the median divider, leaving her exhaust system behind.
When she arrived at the hospital, people rushed to the windows to see what all the noise was. The Cadillac, with both mu􏰄ers gone, sounded like a heavy bomber coming in on a wing and a prayer. Valencia turned o􏰃 the engine, but then she slumped against the steering wheel, and the horn brayed steadily. A doctor and a nurse ran out to 􏰀nd out what the trouble was. Poor Valencia was unconscious, overcome by carbon monoxide. She was a heavenly azure.
One hour later she was dead. So it goes.
•••
Billy knew nothing about it. He dreamed on, and traveled in time and so forth. The hospital was so crowded that Billy couldn’t have a room to himself. He shared a room with a Harvard history professor named Bertram Copeland Rumfoord. Rumfoord didn’t have to look at Billy, because Billy was surrounded by white linen screens on rubber wheels. But Rumfoord could hear Billy talking to himself from time to time.
Rumfoord’s left leg was in traction. He had broken it while skiing. He was seventy years old, but had the body and spirit of a man half that age. He had been honeymooning with his 􏰀fth wife when he broke his leg. Her name was Lily. Lily was
 
twenty-three.
 Just about the time poor Valencia was pronounced dead, Lily came into Billy’s and Rumfoord’s room with an armload of books. Rumfoord had sent her down to Boston to get them. He was working on a one-volume history of the United States Army Air Corps in World War Two. The books were about bombings and sky battles that had happened before Lily was even born.
•••
“You guys go on without me,” said Billy Pilgrim deliriously, as pretty little Lily came in. She had been an a-go-go girl when Rumfoord saw her and resolved to make her his own. She was a high school dropout. Her I.Q. was 103. “He scares me,” she whispered to her husband about Billy Pilgrim.
“He bores the hell out of me!” Rumfoord replied boomingly. “All he does in his sleep is quit and surrender and apologize and ask to be left alone.” Rumfoord was a retired brigadier general in the Air Force Reserve, the o􏰂cial Air Force Historian, a full professor, the author of twenty-six books, a multimillionaire since birth, and one of the great competitive sailors of all time. His most popular book was about sex and strenuous athletics for men over sixty-􏰀ve. Now he quoted Theodore Roosevelt, whom he resembled a lot:
“‘I could carve a better man out of a banana.’”
One of the things Rumfoord had told Lily to get in Boston was a copy of President Harry S Truman’s announcement to the world that an atomic bomb had been dropped on Hiroshima. She had a Xerox of it, and Rumfoord asked her if she had read it.
“No.” She didn’t read well, which was one of the reasons she had dropped out of high school.
Rumfoord ordered her to sit down and read the Truman statement now. He didn’t know that she couldn’t read much. He knew very little about her, except that she was one more public demonstration that he was a superman.
So Lily sat down and pretended to read the Truman thing, which went like this:
Sixteen hours ago an American airplane dropped one bomb on Hiroshima, an important Japanese Army base. That bomb had more power than 20,000 tons of T.N.T. It had more than two thousand times the blast power of the British “Grand Slam,” which is the largest bomb ever yet used in the history of warfare.
The Japanese began the war from the air at Pearl Harbor. They have been repaid many- fold. And the end is not yet. With this bomb we have now added a new and revolutionary increase in destruction to supplement the growing power of our armed forces. In their present form these bombs are now in production, and even more powerful forms are in development.
It is an atomic bomb. It is a harnessing of the basic power of the universe. The force from which the sun draws its power has been loosed against those who brought war to the Far East.

Before 1939, it was the accepted belief of scientists that it was theoretically possible to release atomic energy. But nobody knew any practical method of doing it. By 1942, however, we knew that the Germans were working feverishly to 􏰀nd a way to add atomic energy to all the other engines of war with which they hoped to enslave the world. But they failed. We may be grateful to Providence that the Germans got the V-1’s and V-2’s late and in limited quantities and even more grateful that they did not get the atomic bomb at all.
The battle of the laboratories held fateful risks for us as well as the battles of the air, land, and sea, and we have now won the battle of the laboratories as we have won the other battles.
We are now prepared to obliterate more rapidly and completely every productive enterprise the Japanese have above ground in any city, said Harry Truman. We shall destroy their docks, their factories, and their communications. Let there be no mistake; we shall completely destroy Japan’s power to make war. It was to spare—
And so on.
One of the books that Lily had brought Rumfoord was The Destruction of Dresden, by an Englishman named David Irving. It was an American edition, published by Holt, Rinehart and Winston in 1964. What Rumfoord wanted from it were portions of the forewords by his friends Ira C. Eaker, Lieutenant General, U.S.A.F., retired, and British Air Marshal Sir Robert Saundby, K.C.B., K.B.E., M.C., D.F.C., A.F.C.
I 􏰀nd it di􏰂cult to understand Englishmen or Americans who weep about enemy civilians who were killed but who have not shed a tear for our gallant crews lost in combat with a cruel enemy, wrote his friend General Eaker in part. I think if would have been well for Mr. Irving to have remembered, when he was drawing the frightful picture of the civilians killed at Dresden, that V-1’s and V-2’s were at the very time falling on England, killing civilian men, women, and children indiscriminately, as they were designed and launched to do. It might be well to remember Buchenwald and Coventry, too.
Eaker’s foreword ended this way:
I deeply regret that British and U.S. bombers killed 135,000 people in the attack on Dresden, but I remember who started the last war and I regret even more the loss of more than 5,000,000 Allied lives in the necessary e􏰃ort to completely defeat and utterly destroy nazism.
So it goes.
What Air Marshal Saundby said, among other things, was this:
That the bombing of Dresden was a great tragedy none can deny. That it was really a military necessity few, after reading this book, will believe. It was one of those terrible things that sometimes happen in wartime, brought about by an unfortunate combination of circumstances. Those who approved it were neither wicked nor cruel, though it may well be that they were too remote from the harsh realities of war to understand fully the appalling destructive power of air bombardment in the spring of 1945.
 
The advocates of nuclear disarmament seem to believe that, if they could achieve their aim, war would become tolerable and decent. They would do well to read this book and ponder the fate of Dresden, where 135,000 people died as the result of an air attack with conventional weapons. On the night of March 9th, 1945, an air attack on Tokyo by American heavy bombers, using incendiary and high explosive bombs, caused the death of 83,793 people. The atom bomb dropped on Hiroshima killed 71,379 people.
So it goes.
“If you’re ever in Cody, Wyoming,” said Billy Pilgrim behind his white linen screens, “just ask for Wild Bob.”
Lily Rumfoord shuddered, went on pretending to read the Harry Truman thing.
•••
Billy’s daughter Barbara came in later that day. She was all doped up, had the same glassy-eyed look that poor old Edgar Derby wore just before he was shot in Dresden. Doctors had given her pills so she could continue to function, even though her father was broken and her mother was dead.
So it goes.
She was accompanied by a doctor and a nurse. Her brother Robert was 􏰁ying home from a battlefield in Vietnam. “Daddy—” she said tentatively. “Daddy—?”
But Billy was ten years away, back in 1958. He was examining the eyes of a young male Mongolian idiot in order to prescribe corrective lenses. The idiot’s mother was there, acting as an interpreter.
“How many dots do you see?” Billy Pilgrim asked him.
And then Billy traveled in time to when he was sixteen years old, in the waiting room of a doctor. Billy had an infected thumb. There was only one other patient waiting —an old, old man. The old man was in agony because of gas. He farted tremendously, and then he belched.
“Excuse me,” he said to Billy. Then he did it again. “Oh God—” he said, “I knew it was going to be bad getting old.” He shook his head. “I didn’t know it was going to be this bad.”
Billy Pilgrim opened his eyes in the hospital in Vermont, did not know where he was. Watching him was his son Robert. Robert was wearing the uniform of the famous Green Berets. Robert’s hair was short, was wheat-colored bristles. Robert was clean and neat. He was decorated with a Purple Heart and a Silver Star and a Bronze Star with two clusters.
This was a boy who had 􏰁unked out of high school, who had been an alcoholic at sixteen, who had run with a rotten bunch of kids, who had been arrested for tipping
  
over hundreds of tombstones in a Catholic cemetery one time. He was all straightened out now. His posture was wonderful and his shoes were shined and his trousers were pressed, and he was a leader of men.
“Dad—?”
Billy Pilgrim closed his eyes again. •••
Billy had to miss his wife’s funeral because he was still so sick. He was conscious, though, while Valencia was being put into the ground in Ilium. Billy hadn’t said much since regaining consciousness, hadn’t responded very elaborately to the news of Valencia’s death and Robert’s coming home from the war and so on—so it was generally believed that he was a vegetable. There was talk of performing an operation on him later, one which might improve the circulation of blood to his brain.
Actually, Billy’s outward listlessness was a screen. The listlessness concealed a mind which was 􏰀zzing and 􏰁ashing thrillingly. It was preparing letters and lectures about the flying saucers, the negligibility of death, and the true nature of time.
Professor Rumfoord said frightful things about Billy within Billy’s hearing, con􏰀dent that Billy no longer had any brain at all. “Why don’t they let him die?” he asked Lily.
“I don’t know,” she said.
“That’s not a human being anymore. Doctors are for human beings. They should turn him over to a veterinarian or a tree surgeon. They’d know what to do. Look at him! That’s life, according to the medical profession. Isn’t life wonderful?”
“I don’t know,” said Lily.
Rumfoord talked to Lily about the bombing of Dresden one time, and Billy heard it all. Rumfoord had a problem about Dresden. His one-volume history of the Army Air Force in World War Two was supposed to be a readable condensation of the twenty- seven-volume O􏰂cial History of the Army Air Force in World War Two. The thing was, though, there was almost nothing in the twenty-seven volumes about the Dresden raid, even though it had been such a howling success. The extent of the success had been kept a secret for many years after the war—a secret from the American people. It was no secret from the Germans, of course, or from the Russians, who occupied Dresden after the war, who are in Dresden still.
“Americans have 􏰀nally heard about Dresden,” said Rumfoord, twenty-three years after the raid. “A lot of them know now how much worse it was than Hiroshima. So I’ve got to put something about it in my book. From the o􏰂cial Air Force standpoint, it’ll all be new.”
  “Why would they keep it a secret so long?” said Lily.

“For fear that a lot of bleeding hearts,” said Rumfoord, “might not think it was such a wonderful thing to do.”
It was now that Billy Pilgrim spoke up intelligently. “I was there,” he said.
It was di􏰂cult for Rumfoord to take Billy seriously, since Rumfoord had so long considered Billy a repulsive non-person who would be much better o􏰃 dead. Now, with Billy speaking clearly and to the point, Rumfoord’s ears wanted to treat the words as a foreign language that was not worth learning. “What did he say?” said Rumfoord.
Lily had to serve as an interpreter. “He said he was there,” she explained. “He was where?”
“I don’t know,” said Lily. “Where were you?” she asked Billy.
“Dresden,” said Billy.
“Dresden,” Lily told Rumfoord.
“He’s simply echoing things we say,” said Rumfoord. “Oh,” said Lily.
“He’s got echolalia now.”
“Oh.”
Echolalia is a mental disease which makes people immediately repeat things that well people around them say. But Billy didn’t really have it. Rumfoord simply insisted, for his own comfort, that Billy had it. Rumfoord was thinking in a military manner: that an inconvenient person, one whose death he wished for very much, for practical reasons, was suffering from a repulsive disease.
Rumfoord went on insisting for several hours that Billy had echolalia—told nurses and a doctor that Billy had echolalia now. Some experiments were performed on Billy. Doctors and nurses tried to get Billy to echo something, but Billy wouldn’t make a sound for them.
“He isn’t doing it now,” said Rumfoord peevishly. “The minute you go away, he’ll start doing it again.”
Nobody took Rumfoord’s diagnosis seriously. The sta􏰃 thought Rumfoord was a hateful old man, conceited and cruel. He often said to them, in one way or another, that people who were weak deserved to die. Whereas the sta􏰃, of course, was devoted to the idea that weak people should be helped as much as possible, that nobody should die.
    There in the hospital, Billy was having an adventure very common among people

without power in time of war: He was trying to prove to a willfully deaf and blind enemy that he was interesting to hear and see. He kept silent until the lights went out at night, and then, when there had been a long period of silence containing nothing to echo, he said to Rumfoord, “I was in Dresden when it was bombed. I was a prisoner of
war.R” umfoord sighed impatiently.
“Word of honor,” said Billy Pilgrim. “Do you believe me?”
“Must we talk about it now?” said Rumfoord. He had heard. He didn’t believe.
“We don’t ever have to talk about it,” said Billy. “I just want you to know: I was there.”
Nothing more was said about Dresden that night, and Billy closed his eyes, traveled in time to a May afternoon, two days after the end of the Second World War in Europe. Billy and 􏰀ve other American prisoners were riding in a co􏰂n-shaped green wagon, which they had found abandoned, complete with two horses, in a suburb of Dresden. Now they were being drawn by the clop-clop-clopping horses down narrow lanes which had been cleared through the moonlike ruins. They were going back to the slaughterhouse for souvenirs of the war. Billy was reminded of the sounds of milkmen’s horses early in the morning in Ilium, when he was a boy.
Billy sat in the back of the jiggling co􏰂n. His head was tilted back and his nostrils were 􏰁aring. He was happy. He was warm. There was food in the wagon, and wine— and a camera, and a stamp collection, and a stu􏰃ed owl, and a mantel clock that ran on changes of barometric pressure. The Americans had gone into empty houses in the suburb where they had been imprisoned, and they had taken these and many other things.
The owners, hearing that the Russians were coming, killing and robbing and raping and burning, had fled.
But the Russians hadn’t come yet, even two days after the war. It was peaceful in the ruins. Billy saw only one other person on the way to the slaughterhouse. It was an old man pushing a baby buggy. In the buggy were pots and cups and an umbrella frame, and other things he had found.
Billy stayed in the wagon when it reached the slaughterhouse, sunning himself. The others went looking for souvenirs. Later on in life, the Tralfamadorians would advise Billy to concentrate on the happy moments of his life, and to ignore the unhappy ones— to stare only at pretty things as eternity failed to go by. If this sort of selectivity had been possible for Billy, he might have chosen as his happiest moment his sundrenched snooze in the back of the wagon.
   
Billy Pilgrim was armed as he snoozed. It was the 􏰀rst time he had been armed since basic training. His companions had insisted that he arm himself, since God only knew what sorts of killers might be in burrows on the face of the moon—wild dogs, packs of rats fattened on corpses, escaped maniacs and murderers, soldiers who would never quit killing until they themselves were killed.
Billy had a tremendous cavalry pistol in his belt. It was a relic of World War One. It had a ring in its butt. It was loaded with bullets the size of robins’ eggs. Billy had found it in the bedside table in a house. That was one of the things about the end of the war: Absolutely anybody who wanted a weapon could have one. They were lying all around. Billy had a saber, too. It was a Luftwa􏰃e ceremonial saber. Its hilt was stamped with a screaming eagle. The eagle was carrying a swastika and looking down. Billy found it stuck into a telephone pole. He had pulled it out of the pole as the wagon went by.
Now his snoozing became shallower as he heard a man and a woman speaking German in pitying tones. The speakers were commiserating with somebody lyrically. Before Billy opened his eyes, it seemed to him that the tones might have been those used by the friends of Jesus when they took His ruined body down from His cross. So it goes.
Billy opened his eyes. A middle-aged man and wife were crooning to the horses. They were noticing what the Americans had not noticed—that the horses’ mouths were bleeding, gashed by the bits, that the horses’ hooves were broken, so that every step meant agony, that the horses were insane with thirst. The Americans had treated their form of transportation as though it were no more sensitive than a six-cylinder Chevrolet.
These two horse pitiers moved back along the wagon to where they could gaze in patronizing reproach at Billy—at Billy Pilgrim, who was so long and weak, so ridiculous in his azure toga and silver shoes. They weren’t afraid of him. They weren’t afraid of anything. They were doctors, both obstetricians. They had been delivering babies until the hospitals were all burned down. Now they were picnicking near where their apartment used to be.
The woman was softly beautiful, translucent from having eaten potatoes for so long. The man wore a business suit, necktie and all. Potatoes had made him gaunt. He was as tall as Billy, wore steel-rimmed trifocals. This couple, so involved with babies, had never reproduced themselves, though they could have. This was an interesting comment on the whole idea of reproduction.
They had nine languages between them. They tried Polish on Billy Pilgrim 􏰀rst, since he was dressed so clownishly, since the wretched Poles were the involuntary clowns of the Second World War.
Billy asked them in English what it was they wanted, and they at once scolded him in English for the condition of the horses. They made Billy get out of the wagon and come look at the horses. When Billy saw the condition of his means of transportation, he
  
burst into tears. He hadn’t cried about anything else in the war.
 Later on, as a middle-aged optometrist, he would weep quietly and privately sometimes, but never make loud boohooing noises.
Which is why the epigraph of this book is the quatrain from the famous Christmas carol. Billy cried very little, though he often saw things worth crying about, and in that respect, at least, he resembled the Christ of the carol:
The cattle are lowing, The Baby awakes.
But the little Lord Jesus No crying he makes.
Billy traveled in time back to the hospital in Vermont. Breakfast had been eaten and cleared away, and Professor Rumfoord was reluctantly becoming interested in Billy as a human being. Rumfoord questioned Billy gru􏰄y, satis􏰀ed himself that Billy really had been in Dresden. He asked Billy what it had been like, and Billy told him about the horses and the couple picnicking on the moon.
The story ended this way: Billy and the doctors unharnessed the horses, but the horses wouldn’t go anywhere. Their feet hurt too much. And then Russians came on motorcycles, and they arrested everybody but the horses.
Two days after that, Billy was turned over to the Americans, who shipped him home on a very slow freighter called the Lucretia A. Mott. Lucretia A. Mott was a famous American suffragette. She was dead. So it goes.
“It had to be done,” Rumfoord told Billy, speaking of the destruction of Dresden. “I know,” said Billy.
“That’s war.”
“I know. I’m not complaining.”
“It must have been hell on the ground.” “It was,” said Billy Pilgrim.
“Pity the men who had to do it.”
“I do.”
“You must have had mixed feelings, there on the ground.”
“It was all right,” said Billy. “Everything is all right, and everybody has to do exactly what he does. I learned that on Tralfamadore.”
  Billy Pilgrim’s daughter took him home later that day, put him to bed in his house,

turned the Magic Fingers on. There was a practical nurse there. Billy wasn’t supposed to work or even leave the house for a while, at least. He was under observation.
But Billy sneaked out while the nurse wasn’t watching, and he drove to New York City, where he hoped to appear on television. He was going to tell the world about the lessons of Tralfamadore.
Billy Pilgrim checked into the Royalton Hotel on Forty-fourth Street in New York. He by chance was given a room which had once been the home of George Jean Nathan, the critic and editor. Nathan, according to the Earthling concept of time, had died back in 1958. According to the Tralfamadorian concept, of course, Nathan was still alive somewhere and always would be.
The room was small and simple, except that it was on the top 􏰁oor, and had French doors which opened onto a terrace as large as the room. And beyond the parapet of the terrace was the air space over Forty-fourth Street. Billy now leaned over that parapet, looked down at all the people moving hither and yon. They were jerky little scissors. They were a lot of fun.
It was a chilly night, and Billy came indoors after a while, closed the French doors. Closing those doors reminded him of his honeymoon. There had been French doors on the Cape Ann love nest of his honeymoon, still were, always would be.
Billy turned on his television set, clicking its channel selector around and around. He was looking for programs on which he might be allowed to appear. But it was too early in the evening for programs that allowed people with peculiar opinions to speak out. It was only a little after eight o’clock, so all the shows were about silliness or murder. So it goes.
Billy left his room, went down the slow elevator, walked over to Times Square, looked into the window of a tawdry bookstore. In the window were hundreds of books about fucking and buggery and murder, and a street guide to New York City, and a model of the Statue of Liberty with a thermometer on it. Also in the window, speckled with soot and fly shit, were four paperback novels by Billy’s friend, Kilgore Trout.
The news of the day, meanwhile, was being written in a ribbon of lights on a building to Billy’s back. The window re􏰁ected the news. It was about power and sports and anger and death. So it goes.
Billy went into the bookstore.
A sign in there said that adults only were allowed in the back. There were peep shows in the back that showed movies of young women and men with no clothes on. It cost a quarter to look into a machine for one minute. There were still photographs of naked young people for sale back there, too. You could take those home. The stills were
   
a lot more Tralfamadorian than the movies, since you could look at them whenever you wanted to, and they wouldn’t change. Twenty years in the future, those girls would still be young, would still be smiling or smoldering or simply looking stupid, with their legs wide open. Some of them were eating lollipops or bananas. They would still be eating those. And the peckers of the young men would still be semierect, and their muscles would be bulging like cannonballs.
But Billy Pilgrim wasn’t beguiled by the back of the store. He was thrilled by the Kilgore Trout novels in the front. The titles were all new to him, or he thought they were. Now he opened one. It seemed all right for him to do that. Everybody else in the store was pawing things. The name of the book was The Big Board. He got a few paragraphs into it, and then he realized that he had read it be-fore—years ago, in the veterans’ hospital. It was about an Earthling man and woman who were kidnapped by extra-terrestrials. They were put on display in a zoo on a planet called Zircon-212.
These 􏰀ctitious people in the zoo had a big board supposedly showing stock market quotations and commodity prices along one wall of their habitat, and a news ticker, and a telephone that was supposedly connected to a brokerage on Earth. The creatures on Zircon-212 told their captives that they had invested a million dollars for them back on Earth, and that it was up to the captives to manage it so that they would be fabulously wealthy when they were returned to Earth.
The telephone and the big board and the ticker were all fakes, of course. They were simply stimulants to make the Earthlings perform vividly for the crowds at the zoo—to make them jump up and down and cheer, or gloat, or sulk, or tear their hair, to be scared shitless or to feel as contented as babies in their mothers’ arms.
The Earthlings did very well on paper. That was part of the rigging, of course. And religion got mixed up in it, too. The news ticker reminded them that the President of the United States had declared National Prayer Week, and that everybody should pray. The Earthlings had had a bad week on the market before that. They had lost a small fortune in olive oil futures. So they gave praying a whirl.
It worked. Olive oil went up.
Another Kilgore Trout book there in the window was about a man who built a time machine so he could go back and see Jesus. It worked, and he saw Jesus when Jesus was only twelve years old. Jesus was learning the carpentry trade from his father.
Two Roman soldiers came into the shop with a mechanical drawing on papyrus of a device they wanted built by sunrise the next morning. It was a cross to be used in the execution of a rabble-rouser.
Jesus and his father built it. They were glad to have the work. And the rabble-rouser was executed on it.
  
So it goes.
 The bookstore was run by seeming quintuplets, by 􏰀ve short, bald men chewing unlit cigars that were sopping wet. They never smiled, and each one had a stool to perch on. They were making money running a paper-and-celluloid whorehouse. They didn’t have hard-ons. Neither did Billy Pilgrim. Everybody else did. It was a ridiculous store, all about love and babies.
The clerks occasionally told somebody to buy or get out, not to just look and look and look and paw and paw. Some of the people were looking at each other instead of the merchandise.
A clerk came up to Billy and told him the good stu􏰃 was in the back, that the books Billy was reading were window dressing. “That ain’t what you want, for Christ’s sake,” he told Billy. “What you want’s in back.”
So Billy moved a little farther back, but not as far as the part for adults only. He moved because of absentminded politeness, taking a Trout book with him—the one about Jesus and the time machine.
The time-traveler in the book went back to Bible times to 􏰀nd out one thing in particular: Whether or not Jesus had really died on the cross, or whether he had been taken down while still alive, whether he had really gone on living. The hero had a stethoscope along.
Billy skipped to the end of the book, where the hero mingled with the people who were taking Jesus down from the cross. The time-traveler was the 􏰀rst one up the ladder, dressed in clothes of the period, and he leaned close to Jesus so people couldn’t see him use the stethoscope, and he listened.
There wasn’t a sound inside the emaciated chest cavity. The Son of God was dead as a doornail.
So it goes.
The time-traveler, whose name was Lance Corwin, also got to measure the length of Jesus, but not to weigh him. Jesus was five feet and three and a half inches long.
Another clerk came up to Billy and asked him if he was going to buy the book or not, and Billy said that he wanted to buy it, please. He had his back to a rack of paperback books about oral-genital contacts from ancient Egypt to the present and so on, and the clerk supposed Billy was reading one of these. So he was startled when he saw what Billy’s book was. He said, “Jesus Christ, where did you 􏰀nd this thing?” and so on, and he had to tell the other clerks about the pervert who wanted to buy the window dressing. The other clerks already knew about Billy. They had been watching him, too.
The cash register where Billy waited for his change was near a bin of old girly magazines. Billy looked at one out of the corner of his eye, and he saw this question on
 
its cover. What really became of Montana Wildhack?
 So Billy read it. He knew where Montana Wildhack really was, of course. She was back on Tralfamadore, taking care of the baby, but the magazine, which was called Midnight Pussycats, promised that she was wearing a cement overcoat under thirty fathoms of saltwater in San Pedro Bay.
So it goes.
Billy wanted to laugh. The magazine, which was published for lonesome men to jerk o􏰃 to, ran the story so it could print pictures taken from blue movies which Montana had made as a teen-ager. Billy did not look closely at these. They were grainy things, soot and chalk. They could have been anybody.
Billy was again directed to the back of the store, and he went this time. A jaded sailor stepped away from a movie machine while the 􏰀lm was still running. Billy looked in, and there was Montana Wildhack alone on a bed, peeling a banana. The picture clicked o􏰃. Billy did not want to see what happened next, and a clerk importuned him to come over and see some really hot stuff they kept under the counter for connoisseurs.
Billy was mildly curious as to what could possibly have been kept hidden in such a place. The clerk leered and showed him. It was a photograph of a woman and a Shetland pony. They were attempting to have sexual intercourse between two Doric columns, in front of velvet draperies which were fringed with deedlee-balls.
Billy didn’t get onto television in New York that night, but he did get onto a radio talk show. There was a radio station right next to Billy’s hotel. He saw its call letters over the entrance of an o􏰂ce building, so he went in. He went up to the studio on an automatic elevator, and there were other people up there, waiting to go in. They were literary critics, and they thought Billy was one, too. They were going to discuss whether the novel was dead or not. So it goes.
Billy took his seat with the others around a golden oak table, with a microphone all his own. The master of ceremonies asked him his name and what paper he was from. Billy said he was from the Ilium Gazette.
He was nervous and happy. “If you’re ever in Cody, Wyoming,” he told himself, “just ask for Wild Bob.”
Billy put his hand up at the very 􏰀rst part of the program, but he wasn’t called on right away. Others got in ahead of him. One of them said that it would be a nice time to bury the novel, now that a Virginian, one hundred years after Appomattox, had written Uncle Tom’s Cabin. Another one said that people couldn’t read well enough anymore to turn print into exciting situations in their skulls, so that authors had to do what Norman Mailer did, which was to perform in public what he had written. The master of
  
ceremonies asked people to say what they thought the function of the novel might be in modern society, and one critic said, “To provide touches of color in rooms with all-white walls.” Another one said, “To describe blow-jobs artistically.” Another one said, “To teach wives of junior executives what to buy next and how to act in a French restaurant.”
And then Billy was allowed to speak. O􏰃 he went, in that beautifully trained voice of his, telling about the flying saucers and Montana Wildhack and so on.
He was gently expelled from the studio during a commercial. He went back to his hotel room, put a quarter into the Magic Fingers machine connected to his bed, and he went to sleep. He traveled in time back to Tralfamadore.
“Time-traveling again?” said Montana. It was arti􏰀cial evening in the dome. She was breastfeeding their child.
“Hmm?” said Billy.
“You’ve been time-traveling again. I can always tell.”
“Um.”
“Where did you go this time? It wasn’t the war. I can tell that, too.”
“New York.”
“The Big Apple.”
“Hm?”
“That’s what they used to call New York.”
“Oh.”
“You see any plays or movies?”
“No—I walked around Times Square some, bought a book by Kilgore Trout.”
“Lucky you.” She did not share his enthusiasm for Kilgore Trout.
Billy mentioned casually that he had seen part of a blue movie she had made. Her response was no less casual. It was Tralfamadorian and guilt-free:
“Yes—” she said, “and I’ve heard about you in the war, about what a clown you were. And I’ve heard about the high-school teacher who was shot. He made a blue movie with a 􏰀ring squad.” She moved the baby from one breast to the other, because the moment was so structured that she had to do so.
There was a silence.
“They’re playing with the clocks again,” said Montana, rising, preparing to put the baby into its crib. She meant that their keepers were making the electric clocks in the dome go fast, then slow, then fast again, and watching the little Earthling family through peepholes.
There was a silver chain around Montana Wildhack’s neck. Hanging from it, between her breasts, was a locket containing a photograph of her alcoholic mother—a grainy thing, soot and chalk. It could have been anybody. Engraved on the outside of

the locket were these words:
 
10
 ROBERT KENNEDY, whose summer home is eight miles from the home I live in all year
round, was shot two nights ago. He died last night. So it goes.
Martin Luther King was shot a month ago. He died, too. So it goes.
And every day my Government gives me a count of corpses created by military science in Vietnam. So it goes.
My father died many years ago now—of natural causes. So it goes. He was a sweet man. He was a gun nut, too. He left me his guns. They rust.
On Tralfamadore, says Billy Pilgrim, there isn’t much interest in Jesus Christ. The Earthling figure who is most engaging to the Tralfamadorian mind, he says, is Charles Darwin—who taught that those who die are meant to die, that corpses are improvements. So it goes.
The same general idea appears in The Big Board by Kilgore Trout. The 􏰁ying saucer creatures who capture Trout’s hero ask him about Darwin. They also ask him about golf.
If what Billy Pilgrim learned from the Tralfamadorians is true, that we will all live forever, no matter how dead we may sometimes seem to be, I am not overjoyed. Still—if I am going to spend eternity visiting this moment and that, I’m grateful that so many of those moments are nice.
One of the nicest ones in recent times was on my trip back to Dresden with my old war buddy, O’Hare.
We took a Hungarian Airlines plane from East Berlin. The pilot had a handlebar mustache. He looked like Adolphe Menjou. He smoked a Cuban cigar while the plane was being fueled. When we took off, there was no talk of fastening seat belts.
When we were up in the air, a young steward served us rye bread and salami and butter and cheese and white wine. The folding tray in front of me would not open out. The steward went into the cockpit for a tool, came back with a beer-can opener. He used it to pry out the tray.
There were only six other passengers. They spoke many languages. They were having nice times, too. East Germany was down below, and the lights were on. I imagined dropping bombs on those lights, those villages and cities and towns.
    
O’Hare and I had never expected to make any money—and here we were now, extremely well-to-do.
“If you’re ever in Cody, Wyoming,” I said to him lazily, “just ask for Wild Bob.”
O’Hare had a little notebook with him, and printed in the back of it were postal rates and airline distances and the altitudes of famous mountains and other key facts about the world. He was looking up the population of Dresden, which wasn’t in the notebook, when he came across this, which he gave me to read:
On an average, 324,000 new babies are born into the world every day. During that same day, 10,000 persons, on an average, will have starved to death or died from malnutrition. So it goes. In addition 123,000 persons will die for other reasons. So it goes. This leaves a net gain of about 191,000 each day in the world. The Population Reference Bureau predicts that the world’s total population will double to 7,000,000,000 before the year 2000.
“I suppose they will all want dignity,” I said. “I suppose,” said O’Hare.
Billy Pilgrim was meanwhile traveling back to Dresden, too, but not in the present. He was going back there in 1945, two days after the city was destroyed. Now Billy and the rest were being marched into the ruins by their guards. I was there. O’Hare was there. We had spent the past two nights in the blind inn-keeper’s stable. Authorities had found us there. They told us what to do. We were to borrow picks and shovels and crowbars and wheelbarrows from our neighbors. We were to march with these implements to such and such a place in the ruins, ready to go to work.
There were barricades on the main roads leading into the ruins. Germans were stopped there. They were not permitted to explore the moon.
Prisoners of war from many lands came together that morning at such and such a place in Dresden. It had been decreed that here was where the digging for bodies was to begin. So the digging began.
Billy found himself paired as a digger with a Maori, who had been captured at Tobruk. The Maori was chocolate brown. He had whirlpools tattooed on his forehead and his cheeks. Billy and the Maori dug into the inert, unpromising gravel of the moon. The materials were loose, so there were constant little avalanches.
Many holes were dug at once. Nobody knew yet what there was to 􏰀nd. Most holes came to nothing—to pavement, or to boulders so huge they would not move. There was no machinery. Not even horses or mules or oxen could cross the moonscape.
    And Billy and the Maori and others helping them with their particular hole came at

last to a membrane of timbers laced over rocks which had wedged together to form an accidental dome. They made a hole in the membrane. There was darkness and space under there.
A German soldier with a flashlight went down into the darkness, was gone a long time. When he Finally came back, he told a superior on the rim of the hole that there were dozens of bodies down there. They were sitting on benches. They were unmarked.
So it goes.
The superior said that the opening in the membrane should be enlarged, and that a ladder should be put in the hole, so that the bodies could be carried out. Thus began the first corpse mine in Dresden.
There were hundreds of corpse mines operating by and by. They didn’t smell bad at first, were wax museums. But then the bodies rotted and liquefied, and the stink was like roses and mustard gas.
So it goes.
The Maori Billy had worked with died of the dry heaves, after having been ordered to go down in that stink and work. He tore himself to pieces, throwing up and throwing
up. So it goes.
So a new technique was devised. Bodies weren’t brought up any more. They were cremated by soldiers with flamethrowers right where they were. The soldiers stood outside the shelters, simply sent the fire in.
Somewhere in there the poor old high school teacher, Edgar Derby, was caught with a teapot he had taken from the catacombs. He was arrested for plundering. He was tried and shot.
So it goes.
And somewhere in there was springtime. The corpse mines were closed down. The soldiers all left to 􏰀ght the Russians. In the suburbs, the women and children dug ri􏰁e pits. Billy and the rest of his group were locked up in the stable in the suburbs. And then, one morning, they got up to discover that the door was unlocked. World War Two in Europe was over.
Billy and the rest wandered out onto the shady street. The trees were lea􏰀ng out. There was nothing going on out there, no tra􏰂c of any kind. There was only one vehicle, an abandoned wagon drawn by two horses. The wagon was green and co􏰂n- shaped.
Birds were talking.
One bird said to Billy Pilgrim, “Poo-tee-weet?”

The Day the World Ended 1
     Call me Jonah. My parents did, or nearly did. They called me
John.
     Jonah – John - if I had been a Sam, I would have been a Jonah
still, not because I have been unlucky for others, but because
somebody or something has compelled me to be certain places at
certain times, without fail. Conveyances and motives, both
conventional and bizarre, have been provided. And, according to
plan, at each appointed second, at each appointed place this Jonah
was there.
Listen:
     When I was a younger man--two wives ago, 250,000 cigarettes
ago, 3,000 quarts of booze ago.
     When I was a much younger man, I began to collect material
for a book to be called The Day the World Ended.
     The book was to be factual.
     The book was to be an account of what important Americans had
done on the day when the first atomic bomb was dropped on
Hiroshima, Japan.
     It was to be a Christian book. I was a Christian then.
     I am a Bokononist now.
     I would have been a Bokononist then, if there had been anyone
to teach me the bittersweet lies of Bokonon. But Bokononism was
unknown beyond the gravel beaches and coral knives that ring this
little island in the Caribbean Sea, the Republic of San Lorenzo.
     We Bokononists believe that humanity is organized into teams,
teams that do God's Will without ever discovering what they are
doing. Such a team is called a karass by Bokonon, and the
instrument, the kan-kan, that brought me into my own particular
karass was the book I never finished, the book to be called The
Day the World Ended.
Nice, Nice, Very Nice 2
     "If you find your life tangled up with somebody else's life
for no very logical reasons," writes Bokonon, "that person may be
a member of your karass."
     At another point in The Books of Bokonon he tells us, "Man
created the checkerboard; God created the karass." By that he
means that a karass ignores national, institutional, occupational,
familial, and class boundaries.
     It is as free-form as an amoeba.
     In his "Fifty-third Calypso," Bokonon invites us to sing
along with him:
          Oh, a sleeping drunkard
          Up in Central Park,
          And a lion-hunter

Folly 3
In the jungle dark,
And a Chinese dentist,
And a British queen--
All fit together
In the same machine.
Nice, nice, very nice;
Nice, nice, very nice;
Nice, nice, very nice--
So many different people
In the same device.
     Nowhere does Bokonon warn against a person's trying to
discover the limits of his karass and the nature of the work God
Almighty has had it do. Bokonon simply observes that such
investigations are bound to be incomplete.
     In the autobiographical section of The Books of Bokanon he
writes a parable on the folly of pretending to discover, to
understand:
     I once knew an Episcopalian lady in Newport, Rhode Island,
who asked me to design and build a doghouse for her Great Dane.
The lady claimed to understand God and His Ways of Working
perfectly. She could not understand why anyone should be puzzled
about what had been or about what was going to be.
     And yet, when I showed her a blueprint of the doghouse I
proposed to build, she said to me, "I'm sorry, but I never could
read one of those things."
     "Give it to your husband or your minister to pass on to God,"
I said, "and, when God finds a minute, I'm sure he'll explain this
doghouse of mine in a way that even you can understand."
     She fired me. I shall never forget her. She believed that God
liked people in sailboats much better than He liked people in
motorboats. She could not bear to look at a worm. When she saw a
worm, she screamed.

     She was a fool, and so am I, and so is anyone who thinks he
sees what God is Doing, [writes Bokonon].
A Tentative Tangling of Tendrils 4
     Be that as it may, I intend in this book to include as many
members of my karass as possible, and I mean to examine all strong
hints as to what on Earth we, collectively, have been up to.
     I do not intend that this book be a tract on behalf of
Bokononism. I should like to offer a Bokononist warning about it,
however. The first sentence in The Books of Bokonon is this:
     "All of the true things I am about to tell you are shameless
lies."
     My Bokononist warning is this:
     Anyone unable to understand how a useful religion can be
founded on lies will not understand this book either.
So be it.
     About my karass, then.
     It surely includes the three children of Dr. Felix Hoenikker,
one of the so-called "Fathers" of the first atomic bomb. Dr.
Hoenikker himself was no doubt a member of my karass, though he
was dead before my sinookas, the tendrils of my life, began to
tangle with those of his children.
     The first of his heirs to be touched by my sinookas was
Newton Hoenikker, the youngest of his three children, the younger
of his two sons. I learned from the publication of my fraternity,
The Delta Upsilon Quarterly, that Newton Hoenikker, son of the
Nobel Prize physicist, Felix Hoenikker, had been pledged by my
chapter, the Cornell Chapter.
     So I wrote this letter to Newt:
     "Dear Mr. Hoenikker:
     "Or should I say, Dear Brother Hoenikker?
     "I am a Cornell DU now making my living as a freelance
writer. I am gathering material for a book relating to the first
atomic bomb. Its contents will be limited to events that took

place on August 6, 1945, the day the bomb was dropped on
Hiroshima.
     "Since your late father is generally recognized as having
been one of the chief creators of the bomb, I would very much
appreciate any anecdotes you might care to give me of life in your
father's house on the day the bomb was dropped.
     "I am sorry to say that I don't know as much about your
illustrious family as I should, and so don't know whether you have
brothers and sisters. If you do have brothers and sisters, I
should like very much to have their addresses so that I can send
similar requests to them.
     "I realize that you were very young when the bomb was
dropped, which is all to the good. My book is going to emphasize
the human rather than the technical side of the bomb, so
recollections of the day through the eyes of a 'baby,' if you'll
pardon the expression, would fit in perfectly.
     "You don't have to worry about style and form. Leave all that
to me. Just give me the bare bones of your story.
     "I will, of course, submit the final version to you for your
approval prior to publication.
     "Fraternally yours."
Letter from a Pre-med 5
     To which Newt replied:
     "I am sorry to be so long about answering your letter. That
sounds like a very interesting book you are doing. I was so young
when the bomb was dropped that I don't think I'm going to be much
help. You should really ask my brother and sister, who are both
older than I am. My sister is Mrs. Harrison C. Conners, 4918 North
Meridian Street, Indianapolis, Indiana. That is my home address,
too, now. I think she will be glad to help you. Nobody knows where
my brother Frank is. He disappeared right after Father's funeral
two years ago, and nobody has heard from him since. For all we
know, he may be dead now.
     "I was only six years old when they dropped the atomic bomb
on Hiroshima, so anything I remember about that day other people
have helped me to remember.

     "I remember I was playing on the living-room carpet outside
my father's study door in Ilium, New York. The door was open, and
I could see my father. He was wearing pajamas and a bathrobe. He
was smoking a cigar. He was playing with a loop of string. Father
was staying home from the laboratory in his pajamas all day that
day. He stayed home whenever he wanted to.
     "Father, as you probably know, spent practically his whole
professional life working for the Research Laboratory of the
General Forge and Foundry Company in Ilium. When the Manhattan
Project came along, the bomb project, Father wouldn't leave Ilium
to work on it. He said he wouldn't work on it at all unless they
let him work where he wanted to work. A lot of the time that meant
at home. The only place he liked to go, outside of Ilium, was our
cottage on Cape Cod. Cape Cod was where he died. He died on a
Christmas Eve. You probably know that, too.
     "Anyway, I was playing on the carpet outside his study on the
day of the bomb. My sister Angela tells me I used to play with
little toy trucks for hours, making motor sounds, going 'burton,
burton, burton' all the time. So I guess I was going 'burton,
burton, burton,' on the day of the bomb; and Father was in his
study, playing with a loop of string.
     "It so happens I know where the string he was playing with
came from. Maybe you can use it somewhere in your book. Father
took the string from around the manuscript of a novel that a man
in prison had sent him. The novel was about the end of the world
in the year 2000, and the name of the book was _2000 A.D._ It told
about how mad scientists made a terrific bomb that wiped out the
whole world. There was a big sex orgy when everybody knew that the
world was going to end, and then Jesus Christ Himself appeared ten
seconds before the bomb went off. The name of the author was
Marvin Sharpe Holderness, and he told Father in a covering letter
that he was in prison for killing his own brother. He sent the
manuscript to Father because he couldn't figure out what kind of
explosives to put in the bomb. He thought maybe Father could make
suggestions.
     "I don't mean to tell you I read the book when I was six. We
had it around the house for years. My brother Frank made it his
personal property, on account of the dirty parts. Frank kept it
hidden in what he called his 'wall safe' in his bedroom. Actually,
it wasn't a safe but just an old stove flue with a tin lid. Frank
and I must have read the orgy part a thousand times when we were
kids. We had it for years, and then my sister Angela found it. She
read it and said it was nothing but a piece of dirty rotten filth.
She burned it up, and the string with it. She was a mother to
Frank and me, because our real mother died when I was born.
     "My father never read the book, I'm pretty sure. I don't
think he ever read a novel or even a short story in his whole

life, or at least not since he was a little boy. He didn't read
his mail or magazines or newspapers, either. I suppose he read a
lot of technical journals, but to tell you the truth, I can't
remember my father reading anything.
     "As I say, all he wanted from that manuscript was the string.
That was the way he was. Nobody could predict what he was going to
be interested in next. On the day of the bomb it was string.
     "Have you ever read the speech he made when he accepted the
Nobel Prize? This is the whole speech: 'Ladies and Gentlemen. I
stand before you now because I never stopped dawdling like an
eight-year-old on a spring morning on his way to school. Anything
can make me stop and look and wonder, and sometimes learn. I am a
very happy man. Thank you.'
     "Anyway, Father looked at that loop of string for a while,
and then his fingers started playing with it. His fingers made the
string figure called a 'cat's cradle.' I don't know where Father
learned how to do that. From his father, maybe. His father was a
tailor, you know, so there must have been thread and string around
all the time when Father was a boy.
     "Making the cat's cradle was the closest I ever saw my father
come to playing what anybody else would call a game. He had no use
at all for tricks and games and rules that other people made up.
In a scrapbook my sister Angela used to keep up, there was a
clipping from _Time_ magazine where somebody asked Father what
games he played for relaxation, and he said, 'Why should I bother
with made-up games when there are so many real ones going on?'
     "He must have surprised himself when he made a cat's cradle
out of the string, and maybe it reminded him of his own childhood.
He all of a sudden came out of his study and did something he'd
never done before. He tried to play with me. Not only had he never
played with me before; he had hardly ever even spoken to me.
     "But he went down on his knees on the carpet next to me, and
he showed me his teeth, and he waved that tangle of string in my
face. 'See? See? See?' he asked. 'Cat's cradle. See the cat's
cradle? See where the nice pussycat sleeps? Meow. Meow.'
     "His pores looked as big as craters on the moon. His ears and
nostrils were stuffed with hair. Cigar smoke made him smell like
the mouth of Hell. So close up, my father was the ugliest thing I
had ever seen. I dream about it all the time.
     "And then he sang. 'Rockabye catsy, in the tree top'; he
sang, 'when the wind blows, the cray-dull will rock. If the bough
breaks, the cray-dull will fall. Down will come craydull, catsy
and all.'
     "I burst into tears. I jumped up and I ran out of the house
as fast as I could go.

     "I have to sign off here. It's after two in the morning. My
roommate just woke up and complained about the noise from the
typewriter."
Bug Fights 6
     Newt resumed his letter the next morning. He resumed it as
follows:
     "Next morning. Here I go again, fresh as a daisy after eight
hours of sleep. The fraternity house is very quiet now. Everybody
is in class but me. I'm a very privileged character. I don't have
to go to class any more. I was flunked out last week. I was a pre-
med. They were right to flunk me out. I would have made a lousy
doctor.
     "After I finish this letter, I think I'll go to a movie. Or
if the sun comes out, maybe I'll go for a walk through one of the
gorges. Aren't the gorges beautiful? This year, two girls jumped
into one holding hands. They didn't get into the sorority they
wanted. They wanted Tri-Delt.
     "But back to August 6, 1945. My sister Angela has told me
many times that I really hurt my father that day when I wouldn't
admire the cat's cradle, when I wouldn't stay there on the carpet
with my father and listen to him sing. Maybe I did hurt him, but I
don't think I could have hurt him much. He was one of the best-
protected human beings who ever lived. People couldn't get at him
because he just wasn't interested in people. I remember one time,
about a year before he died, I tried to get him to tell me
something about my mother. He couldn't remember anything about
her.
     "Did you ever hear the famous story about breakfast on the
day Mother and Father were leaving for Sweden to accept the Nobel
Prize? It was in The Saturday Evening Post one time. Mother cooked
a big breakfast. And then, when she cleared off the table, she
found a quarter and a dime and three pennies by Father's coffee
cup. He'd tipped her.
     "After wounding my father so terribly, if that's what I did,
I ran out into the yard. I didn't know where I was going until I
found my brother Frank under a big spiraea bush. Frank was twelve

then, and I wasn't surprised to find him under there. He spent a
lot of time under there on hot days. Just like a dog, he'd make a
hollow in the cool earth all around the roots. And you never could
tell what Frank would have under the bush with him. One time he
had a dirty book. Another time he had a bottle of cooking sherry.
On the day they dropped the bomb Frank had a tablespoon and a
Mason jar. What he was doing was spooning different kinds of bugs
into the jar and making them fight.
     "The bug fight was so interesting that I stopped crying right
away--forgot all about the old man. I can't remember what all
Frank had fighting in the jar that day, but I can remember other
bug fights we staged later on: one stag beetle against a hundred
red ants, one centipede against three spiders, red ants against
black ants. They won't fight unless you keep shaking the jar. And
that's what Frank was doing, shaking, shaking, the jar.
     "After a while Angela came looking for me. She lifted up one
side of the bush and said, 'So there you are!' She asked Frank
what he thought he was doing, and he said, 'Experimenting.' That's
what Frank always used to say when people asked him what he
thought he was doing. He always said, 'Experimenting.'
     "Angela was twenty-two then. She had been the real head of
the family since she was sixteen, since Mother died, since I was
born. She used to talk about how she had three children--me,
Frank, and Father. She wasn't exaggerating, either. I can remember
cold mornings when Frank, Father, and I would be all in a line in
the front hail, and Angela would be bundling us up, treating us
exactly the same. Only I was going to kindergarten; Frank was
going to junior high; and Father.was going to work on the atom
bomb. I remember one morning like that when the oil burner had
quit, the pipes were frozen, and the car wouldn't start. We all
sat there in the car while Angela kept pushing the starter until
the battery was dead. And then Father spoke up. You know what he
said? He said, 'I wonder about turtles.' 'What do you wonder about
turtles? Angela asked him. 'When they pull in their heads,' he
said, 'do their spines buckle or contract?'
     "Angela was one of the unsung heroines of the atom bomb,
incidentally, and I don't think the story has ever been told.
Maybe you can use it. After the turtle incident, Father got so
interested in turtles that he stopped working on the atom bomb.
Some people from the Manhattan Project finally came out to the
house to ask Angela what to do. She told them to take away
Father's turtles. So one night they went into his laboratory and
stole the turtles and the aquarium. Father never said a word about
the disappearance of the turtles. He just came to work the next
day and looked for things to play with and think about, and
everything there was to play with and think about had something to
do with the bomb.

     "When Angela got me out from under the bush, she asked me
what had happened between Father and me. I just kept saying over
and over again how ugly he was, how much I hated him. So she
slapped me. 'How dare you say that about your father?' she said.
'He's one of the greatest men who ever lived! He won the war
today! Do you realize that? He won the war!' She slapped me again.
     "I don't blame Angela for slapping me. Father was all she
had. She didn't have any boy friends. She didn't have any friends
at all. She had only one hobby. She played the clarinet.
     "I told her again how much I hated my father; she slapped me
again; and then Frank came out from under the bush and punched her
in the stomach. It hurt her something awful. She fell down and she
rolled around. When she got her wind back, she cried and she
yelled for Father.
     "'He won't come,' Frank said, and he laughed at her. Frank
was right. Father stuck his head out a window, and he looked at
Angela and me rolling on the ground, bawling, and Frank standing
over us, laughing. The old man pulled his head indoors again, and
never asked later what all the fuss had been about. People weren't
his specialty.
     "Will that do? Is that any help to your book? Of course,
you've really tied me down, asking me to stick to the day of the
bomb. There are lots of other good anecdotes about the bomb and
Father, from other days. For instance, do you know the story about
Father on the day they first tested a bomb out at Alamogordo?
After the thing went off, after it was a sure thing that America
could wipe out a city with just one bomb, a scientist turned to
Father and said, 'Science has now known sin.' And do you know what
Father said? He said, 'What is Sin?'
     "All the best,
     "Newton Hoenikker"
The Illustrious Hoenikkers 7
     Newt added these three postscripts to his letter:
     "P.S. I can't sign myself 'Fraternally yours' because they
won't let me be your brother on account of my grades. I was only a
pledge, and now they are going to take even that away from me.

     "P.P.S. You call our family 'illustrious,' and I think you
would maybe be making a mistake if you called it that in your
book. I am a midget, for instance--four feet tall. And the last we
heard of my brother Frank, he was wanted by the Florida police,
the F.B.I., and the Treasury Department for running stolen cars to
Cuba on war-surplus L.S.T.'s. So I'm pretty sure 'illustrious'
isn't quite the word you're after. 'Glamorous' is probably closer
to the truth.
     "P.P.P.S. Twenty-four hours later. I have reread this letter
and I can see where somebody might get the impression that I don't
do anything but sit around and remember sad things and pity
myself. Actually, I am a very lucky person and I know it. I am
about to marry a wonderful little girl. There is love enough in
this world for everybody, if people will just look. I am proof of
that."
Newt's Thing with Zinka 8
     Newt did not tell me who his girl friend was. But about two
weeks after he wrote to me everybody in the country knew that her
name was Zinka - plain Zinka. Apparently she didn't have a last
name.
     Zinka was a Ukrainian midget, a dancer with the Borzoi Dance
Company. As it happened, Newt saw a performance by that company in
Indianapolis, before he went to Cornell. And then the company
danced at Cornell. When the Cornell performance was over, little
Newt was outside the stage door with a dozen long-stemmed American
Beauty roses.
     The newspapers picked up the story when little Zinka asked
for political asylum in the United States, and then she and little
Newt disappeared.
     One week after that, little Zinka presented herself at the
Russian Embassy. She said Americans were too materialistic. She
said she wanted to go back home.
     Newt took shelter in his sister's house in Indianapolis. He
gave one brief statement to the press. "It was a private matter,"
he said. "It was an affair of the heart. I have no regrets. What
happened is nobody's business but Zinka's and my own."

     One enterprising American reporter in Moscow, making
inquiries about Zinka among dance people there, made the unkind
discovery that Zinka was not, as she claimed, only twenty-three
years old.
     She was forty-two--old enough to be Newt's mother.
Vice-president in Charge of Volcanoes 9
     I loafed on my book about the day of the bomb.
     About a year later, two days before Christmas, another story
carried me through Ilium, New York, where Dr. Felix Hoenikker had
done most of his work; where little Newt, Frank, and Angela had
spent their formative years.
     I stopped off in Ilium to see what I could see.
     There were no live Hoenikkers left in Ilium, but there were
plenty of people who claimed to have known well the old man and
his three peculiar children.
     I made an appointment with Dr. Asa Breed, Vice-president in
charge of the Research Laboratory of the General Forge and Foundry
Company. I suppose Dr. Breed was a member of my _karass_, too,
though he took a dislike to me almost immediately.
     "Likes and dislikes have nothing to do with it," says
Bokonon--an easy warning to forget.
     "I understand you were Dr. Hoenikker's supervisor during most
of his professional life," I said to Dr. Breed on the telephone.
     "On paper," he said.
     "I don't understand," I said.
     "If I actually supervised Felix," he said, "then I'm ready
now to take charge of volcanoes, the tides, and the migrations of
birds and lemmings. The man was a force of nature no mortal could
possibly control."

Secret Agent X-9 10
     Dr. Breed made an appointment with me for early the next
morning. He would pick me up at my hotel on his way to work, he
said, thus simplifying my entry into the heavily-guarded Research
Laboratory.
     So I had a night to kill in Ilium. I was already in the
beginning and end of night life in Ilium, the Del Prado Hotel. Its
bar, the Cape Cod Room, was a hangout for whores.
     As it happened--"as it was _meant_ to happen," Bokonon would
say--the whore next to me at the bar and the bartender serving •me
had both gone to high school with Franklin Hoenikker, the bug
tormentor, the middle child, the missing son.
     The whore, who said her name was Sandra, offered me delights
unobtainable outside of Place Pigalle and Port Said. I said I
wasn't interested, and she was bright enough to say that she
wasn't really interested either. As things turned out, we had both
overestimated our apathies, but not by much.
     Before we took the measure of each other's passions, however,
we talked about Frank Hoenikker, and we talked about the old man,
and we talked a little about Asa Breed, and we talked about the
General Forge and Foundry Company, and we talked about the Pope
and birth control, about Hitler and the Jews. We talked about
phonies. We talked about truth. We talked about gangsters; we
talked about business. We talked about the nice poor people who
went to the electric chair; and we talked about the rich bastards
who didn't. We talked about religious people who had perversions.
We talked about a lot of things.
We got drunk.
     The bartender was very nice to Sandra. He liked her. He
respected her. He told me that Sandra had been chairman of the
Class Colors Committee at Ilium High. Every class, he explained,
got to pick distinctive colors for itself in its junior year, and
then it got to wear those colors with pride.
     "What colors did you pick?" I asked.
     "Orange and black."
     "Those are good colors."
     "I thought so."
     "Was Franklin Hoenikker on the Class Colors Committee, too?"
     "He wasn't on anything," said Sandra scornfully. "He never
got on any committee, never played any game, never took any girl
out. I don't think he ever even talked to a girl. We used to call
him Secret Agent X-9."
"X-9?"

     "You know--he was always acting like he was on his way
between two secret places; couldn't ever talk to anybody."
     "Maybe he really _did_ have a very rich secret life," I
suggested.
"Nah."
     "Nah," sneered the bartender. "He was just one of those kids
who made model airplanes and jerked off all the time."
Protein 11
     "He was suppose to be our commencement speaker," said Sandra.
     "Who was?" I asked.
     "Dr. Hoenikker--the old man."
     "What did he say?"
     "He didn't show up."
     "So you didn't get a commencement address?"
     "Oh, we got one. Dr. Breed, the one you're gonna see
tomorrow, he showed up, all out of breath, and he gave some kind
of talk."
     "What did he say?"
     "He said he hoped a lot of us would have careers in science,"
she said. She didn't see anything funny in that. She was
remembering a lesson that had impressed her. She was repeating it
gropingly, dutifully. "He said, the trouble with the world was . .
." She had to stop and think.
     "The trouble with the world was," she continued hesitatingly,
"that people were still superstitious instead of scientific. He
said if everybody would study science more, there wouldn't be all
the trouble there was."
     "He said science was going to discover the basic secret of
life someday," the bartender put in. He scratched his head and
frowned. "Didn't I read in the paper the other day where they'd
finally found out what it was?"
     "I missed that," I murmured.
     "I saw that," said Sandra. "About two days ago."
     "That's right," said the bartender.
     "What _is_ the secret of life?" I asked.
     "I forget," said Sandra.

     "Protein," the bartender declared. "They found out something
about protein."
     "Yeah," said Sandra, "that's it."
End of the World Delight 12
     An older bartender came over to join in our conversation in
the Cape Cod Room of the Del Prado. When he heard that I was
writing a book about the day of the bomb, he told me what the day
had been like for him, what the day had been like in the very bar
in which we sat. He had a W. C. Fields twang and a nose like a
prize strawberry.
     "It wasn't the Cape Cod Room then," he said. "We didn't have
all these fugging nets and seashells around. It was called the
Navajo Tepee in those days. Had Indian blankets and cow skulls on
the walls. Had little tom-toms on the tables. People were supposed
to beat on the tom-toms when they wanted service. They tried to
get me to wear a war bonnet, but I wouldn't do it. Real Navajo
Indian came in here one day; told me Navajos didn't live in
tepees. 'That's a fugging shame,' I told him. Before that it was
the Pompeii Room, with busted plaster all over the place; but no
matter what they call the room, they never change the fugging
light fixtures. Never changed the fugging people who come in or
the fugging town outside, either. The day they dropped Hoenikker's
fugging bomb on the Japanese a bum came in and tried to scrounge a
drink. He wanted me to give him a drink on account of the world
was coming to an end. So I mixed him an 'End of the World
Delight.' I gave him about a half-pint of creme de menthe in a
hollowed-out pineapple, with whipped cream and a cherry on top.
'There, you pitiful son of a bitch,' I said to him, 'don't ever
say I never did anything for you.' Another guy came in, and he
said he was quitting his job at the Research Laboratory; said
anything a scientist worked on was sure to wind up as a weapon,
one way or another. Said he didn't want to help politicians with
their fugging wars anymore. Name was Breed. I asked him if he was
any relation to the boss of the fugging Research Laboratory. He
said he fugging well was. Said he was the boss of the Research
Laboratory's fugging son."

The Jumping-off Place 13
     Ah, God, what an ugly city Ilium is!
     "Ah, God," says Bokonon, "what an ugly city every city is!"
     Sleet was falling through a motionless blanket of smog. It
was early morning. I was riding in the Lincoln sedan of Dr. Asa
Breed. I was vaguely ill, still a little drunk from the night
before. Dr. Breed was driving. Tracks of a long-abandoned trolley
system kept catching the wheels of his car.
     Breed was a pink old man, very prosperous, beautifully
dressed. His manner was civilized, optimistic, capable, serene. I,
by contrast, felt bristly, diseased, cynical. I had spent the
night with Sandra.
     My soul seemed as foul as smoke from burning cat fur.
     I thought the worst of everyone, and I knew some pretty
sordid things about Dr. Asa Breed, things Sandra had told me.
     Sandra told me everyone in Ilium was sure that Dr. Breed had
been in love with Felix Hoenikker's wife. She told me that most
people thought Breed was the father of all three Hoenikker
children.
     "Do you know Ilium at all?" Dr. Breed suddenly asked me.
     "This is my first visit."
     "It's a family town."
     "Sir?"
     "There isn't much in the way of night life. Everybody's life
pretty much centers around his family and his home."
     "That sounds very wholesome."
     "It is. We have very little juvenile delinquency."
     "Good."
     "Ilium has a very interesting history, you know."
     "That's very interesting."
     "It used to be the jumping-off place, you know."
     "Sir?"
     "For the Western migration."
     "Oh."
     "People used to get outfitted here."
     "That's very interesting."

     "Just about where the Research Laboratory is now was the old
stockade. That was where they held the public hangings, too, for
the whole county."
     "I don't suppose crime paid any better then than it does
now."
     "There was one man they hanged here in 1782 who had murdered
twenty-six people. I've often thought somebody ought to do a book
about him sometime. George Minor Moakely. He sang a song on the
scaffold. He sang a song he'd composed for the occasion."
     "What was the song about?"
     "You can find the words over at the Historical Society, if
you're really interested."
     "I just wondered about the general tone."
     "He wasn't sorry about anything."
     "Some people are like that."
     "Think of it!" said Dr. Breed. "Twenty-six people he had on
his conscience!"
     "The mind reels," I said.
When Automobiles Had Cut-glass Vases 14
     My sick head wobbled on my stiff neck. The trolley tracks had
caught the wheels of Dr. Breed's glossy Lincoln again.
     I asked Dr. Breed how many people were trying to reach the
General Forge and Foundry Company by eight o'clock, and he told me
thirty thousand.
     Policemen in yellow raincapes were at every intersection,
contradicting with their white-gloved hands what the stop-and-go
signs said.
     The stop-and-go signs, garish ghosts in the sleet, went
through their irrelevant tomfoolery again and again, telling the
glacier of automobiles what to do. Green meant go. Red meant stop.
Orange meant change and caution.
     Dr. Breed told me that Dr. Hoenikker, as a very young man,
had simply abandoned his car in Ilium traffic one morning.
     "The police, trying to find out what was holding up traffic,"
he said, "found Felix's car in the middle of everything, its motor

running, a cigar burning in the ash tray, fresh flowers in the
vases . . ."
"Vases?"
     "It was a Marmon, about the size of a switch engine. It had
little cut-glass vases on the doorposts, and Felix's wife used to
put fresh flowers in the vases every morning. And there that car
was in the middle of traffic."
     "Like the _Marie Celeste_," I suggested.
     "The Police Department hauled it away. They knew whose car it
was, and they called up Felix, and they told him very politely
where his car could be picked up. Felix told them they could keep
it, that he didn't want it any more."
"Did they?"
     "No. They called up his wife, and she came and got the
Marmon."
     "What was her name, by the way?"
     "Emily." Dr. Breed licked his lips, and he got a faraway
look, and he said the name of the woman, of the woman so long
dead, again. "Emily."
     "Do you think anybody would object if I used the story about
the Marmon in my book?" I asked.
     "As long as you don't use the end of it."
     "The _end_ of it?"
     "Emily wasn't used to driving the Marmon. She got into a bad
wreck on the way home. It did something to her pelvis . . ." The
traffic wasn't moving just then. Dr. Breed closed his eyes and
tightened his hands on the steering wheel.
     "And that was why she died when little Newt was born."
Merry Christmas 15
     The Research Laboratory of the General Forge and Foundry
Company was near the main gate of the company's Ilium works, about
a city block from the executive parking lot where Dr. Breed put
his car.
     I asked Dr. Breed how many people worked for the Research
Laboratory. "Seven hundred," he said, "but less than a hundred are
actually doing research. The other six hundred are all

housekeepers in one way or another, and I am the chiefest
housekeeper of all."
     When we joined the mainstream of mankind in the company
street, a woman behind us wished Dr. Breed a merry Christmas. Dr.
Breed turned to peer benignly into the sea of pale pies, and
identified the greeter as one Miss Francine Pefko. Miss Pefko was
twenty, vacantly pretty, and healthy--a dull normal.
     In honor of the dulcitude of Christmastime, Dr. Breed invited
Miss Pefko to join us. He introduced her as the secretary of Dr.
Nilsak Horvath. He then told me who Horvath was. "The famous
surface chemist," he said, "the one who's doing such wonderful
things with films."
     "What's new in surface chemistry?" I asked Miss Pefko. "God,"
she said, "don't ask me. I just type what he tells me to type."
And then she apologized for having said "God."
     "Oh, I think you understand more than you let on," said Dr.
Breed.
     "Not me." Miss Pefko wasn't used to chatting with someone as
important as Dr. Breed and she was embarrassed. Her gait was
affected, becoming stiff and chickenlike. Her smile was glassy,
and she was ransacking her mind for something to say, finding
nothing in it but used Kleenex and costume jewelry.
     "Well . . . ," rumbled Dr. Breed expansively, "how do you
like us, now that you've been with us--how long? Almost a year?"
     "You scientists _think_ too much," blurted Miss Pefko. She
laughed idiotically. Dr. Breed's friendliness had blown every fuse
in her nervous system. She was no longer responsible. "You _all_
think too much."
     A winded, defeated-looking fat woman in filthy coveralls
trudged beside us, hearing what Miss Pefko said. She turned to
examine Dr. Breed, looking at him with helpless reproach. She
hated people who thought too much. At that moment, she struck me
as an appropriate representative for almost all mankind.
     The fat woman's expression implied that she would go crazy on
the spot if anybody did any more thinking.
     "I think you'll find," said Dr. Breed, "that everybody does
about the same amount of thinking. Scientists simply think about
things in one way, and other people think about things in others."
     "Ech," gurgled Miss Pefko emptily. "I take dictation from Dr.
Horvath and it's just like a foreign language. I don't think I'd
understand--even if I was to go to college. And here he's maybe
talking about something that's going to turn everything upside-
down and inside-out like the atom bomb.
     "When I used to come home from school Mother used to ask me
what happened that day, and I'd tell her," said Miss Pefko. "Now I
come home from work and she asks me the same question, and all I

can say is--" Miss Pefko shook her head and let her crimson lips
flap slackly-- "I dunno, I dunno, I dunno."
     "If there's something you don't understand," urged Dr. Breed,
"ask Dr. Horvath to explain it. He's very good at explaining." He
turned to me. "Dr. Hoenikker used to say that any scientist who
couldn't explain to an eight-year-old what he was doing was a
charlatan."
     "Then I'm dumber than an eight-year-old," Miss Pefko mourned.
"I don't even know what a charlatan is."
Back to Kindergarten 16
     We climbed the four granite steps before the Research
Laboratory. The building itself was of unadorned brick and rose
six stories. We passed between two heavily-armed guards at the
entrance.
     Miss Pefko showed the guard on the left the pink
_confidential_ badge at the tip of her left breast.
     Dr. Breed showed the guard on the right the black _top-
secret_ badge on his soft lapel. Ceremoniously, Dr. Breed put his
arm around me without actually touching me, indicating to the
guards that I was under his august protection and control.
     I smiled at one of the guards. He did not smile back. There
was nothing funny about national security, nothing at all.
     Dr. Breed, Miss Pefko, and I moved thoughtfully through the
Laboratory's grand foyer to the elevators.
     "Ask Dr. Horvath to explain something sometime," said Dr.
Breed to Miss Pefko. "See if you don't get a nice, clear answer."
     "He'd have to start back in the first grade--or maybe even
kindergarten," she said. "I missed a lot."
     "We _all_ missed a lot," Dr. Breed agreed. "We'd _all_ do
well to start over again, preferably with kindergarten."
     We watched the Laboratory's receptionist turn on the many
educational exhibits that lined the foyer's walls. The
receptionist was a tall, thin girl--icy, pale. At her crisp touch,
lights twinkled, wheels turned, flasks bubbled, bells rang.
     "Magic," declared Miss Pefko.

     "I'm sorry to hear a member of the Laboratory family using
that brackish, medieval word," said Dr. Breed. "Every one of those
exhibits explains itself. They're designed so as _not_ to be
mystifying. They're the very antithesis of magic."
     "The very what of magic?"
     "The exact opposite of magic."
     "You couldn't prove it by me."
     Dr. Breed looked just a little peeved. "Well," he said, "we
don't _want_ to mystify. At least give us credit for that."
The Girl Pool 17
     Dr. Breed's secretary was standing on her desk in his outer
office tying an accordion-pleated Christmas bell to the ceiling
fixture.
     "Look here, Naomi," cried Dr. Breed, "we've gone six months
without a fatal accident! Don't you spoil it by falling off the
desk!"
     Miss Naomi Faust was a merry, desiccated old lady. I suppose
she had served Dr. Breed for almost all his life, and her life,
too. She laughed. "I'm indestructible. And, even if I did fall,
Christmas angels would catch me."
     "They've been known to miss."
     Two paper tendrils, also accordion-pleated, hung down from
the clapper of the bell. Miss Faust pulled one. It unfolded
stickily and became a long banner with a message written on it.
"Here," said Miss Faust, handing the free end to Dr. Breed, "pull
it the rest of the way and tack the end to the bulletin board."
     Dr. Breed obeyed, stepping back to read the banner's message.
"Peace on Earth!" he read out loud heartily.
     Miss Faust stepped down from her desk with the other tendril,
unfolding it. "Good Will Toward Men!" the other tendril said.
     "By golly," chuckled Dr. Breed, "they've dehydrated
Christmas! The place looks festive, very festive."
     "And I remembered the chocolate bars for the Girl Pool, too,"
she said. "Aren't you proud of me?"
     Dr. Breed touched his forehead, dismayed by his
forgetfulness. "Thank God for that! It slipped my mind."

     "We mustn't ever forget that," said Miss Faust. "It's
tradition now--Dr. Breed and his chocolate bars for the Girl Pool
at Christmas." She explained to me that the Girl Pool was the
typing bureau in the Laboratory's basement. "The girls belong to
anybody with access to a dictaphone."
     All year long, she said, the girls of the Girl Pool listened
to the faceless voices of scientists on dictaphone records--
records brought in by mail girls. Once a year the girls left their
cloister of cement block to go a-caroling--to get their chocolate
bars from Dr. Asa Breed.
     "They serve science, too," Dr. Breed testified, "even though
they may not understand a word of it. God bless them, every one!"
The Most Valuable Commodity on Earth 18
     When we got into Dr. Breed's inner office, I attempted to put
my thoughts in order for a sensible interview. I found that my
mental health had not improved. And, when I started to ask Dr.
Breed questions about the day of the bomb, I found that the
public-relations centers of my brain had been suffocated by booze
and burning cat fur. Every question I asked implied that the
creators of the atomic bomb had been criminal accessories to
murder most foul.
     Dr. Breed was astonished, and then he got very sore. He drew
back from me and he grumbled, "I gather you don't like scientists
very much."
     "I wouldn't say that, sir."
     "All your questions seem aimed at getting me to admit that
scientists are heartless, conscienceless, narrow boobies,
indifferent to the fate of the rest of the human race, or maybe
not really members of the human race at all."
     "That's putting it pretty strong."
     "No stronger that what you're going to put in your book,
apparently. I thought that what you were after was a fair,
objective biography of Felix Hoenikker--certainly as significant a
task as a young writer could assign himself in this day and age.
But no, you come here with preconceived notions, about mad

scientists. Where did you ever get such ideas? From the funny
papers?"
     "From Dr. Hoenikker's son, to name one source."
     "Which son?"
     "Newton," I said. I had little Newt's letter with me, and I
showed it to him. "How small is Newt, by the way?"
     "No bigger than an umbrella stand," said Dr. Breed, reading
Newt's letter and frowning.
     "The other two children are normal?"
     "Of course! I hate to disappoint you, but scientists have
children just like anybody else's children."
     I did my best to calm down Dr. Breed, to convince him that I
was really interested in an accurate portrait of Dr. Hoenikker.
"I've come here with no other purpose than to set down exactly
what you tell me about Dr. Hoenikker. Newt's letter was just a
beginning, and I'll balance off against it whatever you can tell
me."
     "I'm sick of people misunderstanding what a scientist is,
what a scientist does."
     "I'll do my best to clear up the misunderstanding."
     "In this country most people don't even understand what pure
research is."
     "I'd appreciate it if you'd tell me what it is."
     "It isn't looking for a better cigarette filter or a softer
face tissue or a longer-lasting house paint, God help us.
Everybody talks about research and practically nobody in this
country's doing it. We're one of the few companies that actually
hires men to do pure research. When most other companies brag
about their research, they're talking about industrial hack
technicians who wear white coats, work out of cookbooks, and dream
up an improved windshield wiper for next year's Oldsmobile."
     "But here . . . ?"
     "Here, and shockingly few other places in this country, men
are paid to increase knowledge, to work toward no end but that."
     "That's very generous of General Forge and Foundry Company."
     "Nothing generous about it. New knowledge is the most
valuable commodity on earth. The more truth we have to work with,
the richer we become."
     Had I been a Bokononist then, that statement would have made
me howl.

No More Mud 19
     "Do you mean," I said to Dr. Breed, "that nobody in this
Laboratory is ever told what to work on? Nobody even _suggests_
what they work on?"
     "People suggest things all the time, but it isn't in the
nature of a pure-research man to pay any attention to suggestions.
His head is full of projects of his own, and that's the way we
want it."
     "Did anybody ever try to suggest projects to Dr. Hoenikker?"
     "Certainly. Admirals and generals in particular. They looked
upon him as a sort of magician who could make America invincible
with a wave of his wand. They brought all kinds of crackpot
schemes up here--still do. The only thing wrong with the schemes
is that, given our present  state of knowledge, the schemes won't
work. Scientists on the order of Dr. Hoenikker are supposed to
fill the little gaps. I remember, shortly before Felix died, there
was a Marine general who was hounding him to do something about
mud."
"Mud?"
     "The Marines, after almost two-hundred years of wallowing in
mud, were sick of it," said Dr. Breed. "The general, as their
spokesman, felt that one of the aspects of progress should be that
Marines no longer had to fight in mud."
     "What did the general have in mind?"
     "The absence of mud. No more mud."
     "I suppose," I theorized, "it might be possible with
mountains of some sort of chemical, or tons of some sort of
machinery . . ."
     "What the general had in mind was a little pill or a little
machine. Not only were the Marines sick of mud, they were sick of
carrying cumbersome objects. They wanted something _little_ to
carry for a change."
     "What did Dr. Hoenikker say?"
     "In his playful way, and _all_ his ways were playful, Felix
suggested that there might be a single grain of something-- even a
microscopic grain--that could make infinite expanses of muck,
marsh, swamp, creeks, pools, quicksand, and mire as solid as this
desk."
     Dr. Breed banged his speckled old fist on the desk. The desk
was a kidney-shaped, sea green steel affair. "One Marine could
carry more than enough of the stuff to free an armored division
bogged down in the everglades. According to Felix, one Marine

could carry enough of the stuff to do that under the nail of his
little finger."
     "That's impossible."
     "You would say so, I would say so--practically everybody
would say so. To Felix, in his playful way, it was entirely
possible. The miracle of Felix--and I sincerely hope you'll put
this in your book somewhere--was that he always approached old
puzzles as though they were brand new."
     "I feel like Francine Pefko now," I said, "and all the girls
in the Girl Pool, too. Dr. Hoenikker could never have explained to
me how something that could be carried under a fingernail could
make a swamp as solid as your desk."
     "I told you what a good explainer Felix was . . ."
     "Even so . . ."
     "He was able to explain it to me," said Dr. Breed, "and I'm
sure I can explain it to you. The puzzle is how to get Marines out
of the mud--right?"
     "Right."
     "All right," said Dr. Breed, "listen carefully. Here we go."
Ice-nine 20
     "There are several ways," Dr. Breed said to me, "in which
certain liquids can crystallize--can freeze--several ways in which
their atoms can stack and lock in an orderly, rigid way."
     That old man with spotted hands invited me to think of the
several ways in which cannonballs might be stacked on a courthouse
lawn, of the several ways in which oranges might be packed into a
crate.
     "So it is with atoms in crystals, too; and two different
crystals of the same substance can have quite different physical
properties."
     He told me about a factory that had been growing big crystals
of ethylene diamine tartrate. The crystals were useful in certain
manufacturing operations, he said. But one day the factory
discovered that the crystals it was growing no longer had the
properties desired. The atoms had begun to stack and lock--to
freeze--in different fashion. The liquid that was crystallizing

hadn't changed, but the crystals it was forming were, as far as
industrial applications went, pure junk.
     How this had come about was a mystery. The theoretical
villain, however, was what Dr. Breed called "a seed." He meant by
that a tiny grain of the undesired crystal pattern. The seed,
which had come from God-only-knows-where, taught the atoms the
novel way in which to stack and lock, to crystallize, to freeze.
     "Now think about cannonballs on a courthouse lawn or about
oranges in a crate again," he suggested. And he helped me to see
that the pattern of the bottom layers of cannonballs or of oranges
determined how each subsequent layer would stack and lock. "The
bottom layer is the seed of how every cannonball or every orange
that comes after is going to behave, even to an infinite number of
cannonballs or oranges."
     "Now suppose," chortled Dr. Breed, enjoying himself, "that
there were many possible .ways in which water could crystallize,
could freeze. Suppose that the sort of ice we skate upon and put
into highballs--what we might call _ice-one_--is only one of
several types of ice. Suppose water always froze as _ice-one_ on
Earth because it had never had a seed to teach it how to form
_ice-two_, _ice-three_, _ice-four_ . . . ? And suppose," he rapped
on his desk with his old hand again, "that there were one form,
which we will call _ice-nine_--a crystal as hard as this desk--
with a melting point of, let us say, one-hundred degrees
Fahrenheit, or, better still, a melting point of one-hundred-and-
thirty degrees."
     "All right, I'm still with you," I said.
     Dr. Breed was interrupted by whispers in his outer office,
whispers loud and portentous. They were the sounds of the Girl
Pool.
     The girls were preparing to sing in the outer office.
     And they did sing, as Dr. Breed and I appeared in the
doorway. Each of about a hundred girls had made herself into a
choirgirl by putting on a collar of white bond paper, secured by a
paper clip. They sang beautifully.
     I was surprised and mawkishly heartbroken. I am always moved
by that seldom-used treasure, the sweetness with which most girls
can sing.
     The girls sang "O Little Town of Bethlehem." I am not likely
to forget very soon their interpretation of the line:
     "The hopes and fears of all the years are here with us
tonight."

The Marines March On 21
     When old Dr. Breed, with the help of Miss Faust, had passed
out the Christmas chocolate bars to the girls, we returned to his
office.
     There, he said to me, "Where were we? Oh yes!" And that old
man asked me to think of United States Marines in a Godforsaken
swamp.
     "Their trucks and tanks and howitzers are wallowing," he
complained, "sinking in stinking miasma and ooze."
     He raised a finger and winked at me. "But suppose, young man,
that one Marine had with him a tiny capsule containing a seed of
_ice-nine_, a new way for the atoms of water to stack and lock, to
freeze. If that Marine threw that seed into the nearest puddle . .
."
     "The puddle would freeze?" I guessed.
     "And all the muck around the puddle?"
     "It would freeze?"
     "And all the puddles in the frozen muck?"
     "They would freeze?"
     "And the pools and the streams in the frozen muck?"
     "They would freeze?"
     "You _bet_ they would!" he cried. "And the United States
Marines would rise from the swamp and march on!"
Member of the Yellow Press 22
     "There _is_ such stuff?" I asked.
     "No, no, no, no," said Dr. Breed, losing patience with me
again. "I only told you all this in order to give you some insight
into the extraordinary novelty of the ways in which Felix was
likely to approach an old problem. What I've just told you is what
he told the Marine general who was hounding him about mud.

     "Felix ate alone here in the cafeteria every day. It was a
rule that no one was to sit with him, to interrupt his chain of
thought. But the Marine general barged in, pulled up a chair, and
started talking about mud. What I've told you was Felix's offhand
reply."
     "There--there really _isn't_ such a thing?"
     "I just told you there wasn't!" cried Dr. Breed hotly. "Felix
died shortly after that! And, if you'd been listening to what I've
been trying to tell you about pure research men, you wouldn't ask
such a question! Pure research men work on what fascinates them,
not on what fascinates other people."
     "I keep thinking about that swamp . . ."
     "You can _stop_ thinking about it! I've made the only point I
wanted to make with the swamp."
     "If the streams flowing through the swamp froze as _ice-
nine_, what about the rivers and lakes the streams fed?"
     "They'd freeze. But there is no such thing as _ice-nine_."
     "And the oceans the frozen rivers fed?"
     "They'd freeze, of course," he snapped. "I suppose you're
going to rush to market with a sensational story about _ice-nine_
now. I tell you again, it does not exist!"
     "And the springs feeding the frozen lakes and streams, and
all the water underground feeding the springs?"
     "They'd freeze, damn it!" he cried. "But if I had known that
you were a member of the yellow press," he said grandly, rising to
his feet, "I wouldn't have wasted a minute with you!"
     "And the rain?"
     "When it fell, it would freeze into hard little hobnails of
_ice-nine_--and that would be the end of the world! And the end of
the interview, too! Good-bye!"
The Last Batch of Brownies 23
     Dr. Breed was mistaken about at least one thing: there was
such a thing as _ice-nine_.
     And _ice-nine_ was on earth.
     _Ice-nine_ was the last gift Felix Hoenikker created for
mankind before going to his just reward.

     He did it without anyone's realizing what he was doing. He
did it without leaving records of what he'd done.
     True, elaborate apparatus was necessary in the act of
creation, but it already existed in the Research Laboratory. Dr.
Hoenikker had only to go calling on Laboratory neighbors--
borrowing this and that, making a winsome neighborhood nuisance of
himself--until, so to speak, he had baked his last batch of
brownies.
     He had made a chip of _ice-nine_. It was blue-white. It had a
melting point of one-hundred-fourteen-point-four-degrees
Fahrenheit.
     Felix Hoenikker had put the chip in a little bottle; and he
put the bottle in his jacket. And he had gone to his cottage on
Cape Cod with his three children, there intending to celebrate
Christmas.
     Angela had been thirty-four. Frank had been twenty-four.
Little Newt had been eighteen.
     The old man had died on Christmas Eve, having told only his
children about _ice-nine_.
     His children had divided the _ice-nine_ among themselves.
What a Wampeter Is 24
     Which brings me to the Bokononist concept of a _wampeter_.
     A _wampeter_ is the pivot of a _karass_. No _karass_ is
without a _wampeter_, Bokonon tells us, just as no wheel is
without a hub.
     Anything can be a _wampeter_: a tree, a rock, an animal, an
idea, a book, a melody, the Holy Grail. Whatever it is, the
members of its _karass_ revolve about it in the majestic chaos of
a spiral nebula. The orbits of the members of a _karass_ about
their common _wampeter_ are spiritual orbits, naturally. It is
souls and not bodies that revolve. As Bokonon invites us to sing:
          Around and around and around we spin,
          With feet of lead and wings of tin.

     And _wampeters_ come and _wampeters_ go, Bokonon tells us.
     At any given time a _karass_ actually has two _wampeters_--
one waxing in importance, one waning.
     And I am almost certain that while I was talking to Dr. Breed
in Ilium, the _wampeter_ of my _karass_ that was just coming into
bloom was that crystalline form of water, that blue-white gem,
that seed of doom called _ice-nine_.
     While I was talking to Dr. Breed in Ilium, Angela, Franklin,
and Newton Hoenikker had in their possession seeds of _ice-nine_,
seeds grown from their father's seed-- chips, in a manner of
speaking, off the old block.
     What was to become of those three chips was, I am convinced,
a principal concern of my _karass_.
The Main Thing About Dr. Hoenikker 25
     So much, for now, for the _wampeter_ of my _karass_.
     After my unpleasant interview with Dr. Breed in the Research
Laboratory of the General Forge and Foundry Company, I was put
into the hands of Miss Faust. Her orders were to show me to the
door. I prevailed upon her, however, to show me the laboratory of
the late Dr Hoenikker first.
     En route, I asked her how well she had known Dr. Hoenikker.
She gave me a frank and interesting reply, and a piquant smile to
go with it.
     "I don't think he was knowable. I mean, when most peopie talk
about knowing somebody a lot or a little, they're talking about
secrets they've been told or haven't been told. They're talking
about intimate things, family things, love things," that nice old
lady said to me. "Dr. Hoenikker had all those things in his life,
the way every living person has to, but they weren't the main
things with him."
     "What _were_ the main things?" I asked her.
     "Dr. Breed keeps telling me the main thing with Dr. Hoenikker
was truth."
     "You don't seem to agree."

     "I don't know whether I agree or not. I just have trouble
understanding how truth, all by itself, could be enough for a
person."
     Miss Faust was ripe for Bokononism.
What God Is 26
     "Did you ever talk to Dr. Hoenikker?" I asked Miss Faust.
     "Oh, certainly. I talked to him a lot."
     "Do any conversations stick in your mind?"
     "There was one where he bet I couldn't tell him anything that
was absolutely true. So I said to him, 'God is love.'"
     "And what did he say?"
     "He said, 'What is God? What is love?'"
     "Um."
     "But God really _is_ love, you know," said Miss Faust, "no
matter what Dr. Hoenikker said."
Men from Mars 27
     The room that had been the laboratory of Dr. Felix Hoenikker
was on the sixth floor, the top floor of the building.
     A purple cord had been stretched across the doorway, and a
brass plate on the wall explained why the room was sacred:
     IN THIS ROOM, DR. FELIX HOENIKKER, NOBEL LAUREATE IN PHYSICS,
     SPENT THE LAST TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS OF HIS LIFE.
     "WHERE HE WAS, THERE WAS THE FRONTIER OF KNOWLEDGE."

     THE IMPORTANCE OF THIS ONE MAN IN THE
     HISTORY OF MANKIND IS INCALCULABLE.
     Miss Faust offered to unshackle the purple cord for me so
that I might go inside and traffic more intimately with whatever
ghosts there were.
I accepted.
     "It's just as he left it," she said, "except that there were
rubber bands all over one counter."
     "Rubber bands?"
     "Don't ask me what for. Don't ask me what any of all this is
for."
     The old man had left the laboratory a mess. What engaged my
attention at once was the quantity of cheap toys lying around.
There was a paper kite with a broken spine. There was a toy
gyroscope, wound with string, ready to whirr and balance itself.
There was a top. There was a bubble pipe. There was a fish bowl
with a castle and two turtles in it.
     "He loved ten-cent stores," said Miss Faust.
     "I can see he did."
     "Some of his most famous experiments were performed with
equipment that cost less than a dollar."
     "A penny saved is a penny earned."
     There were numerous pieces of conventional laboratory
equipment, too, of course, but they seemed drab accessories to the
cheap, gay toys.
     Dr. Hoenikker's desk was piled with correspondence.
     "I don't think he ever answered a letter," mused Miss Faust.
"People had to get him on the telephone or come to see him if they
wanted an answer."
     There was a framed photograph on his desk. Its back was
toward me and I ventured a guess as to whose picture it was. "His
wife?"
     "No."
     "One of his children?"
     "No."
     "Himself?"
     "No."
     So I took a look. I found that the picture was of an humble
little war memorial in front of a small-town courthouse. Part of
the memorial was a sign that gave the names of those villagers who
had died in various wars, and I thought that the sign must be the
reason for the photograph. I could read the names, and I half
expected to find the name Hoenikker among them. It wasn't there.
     "That was one of his hobbies," said Miss Faust.
     "What was?"

     "Photographing how cannonballs are stacked on different
courthouse lawns. Apparently how they've got them stacked in that
picture is very unusual."
     "I see."
     "He was an unusual man."
     "I agree."
     "Maybe in a million years everybody will be as smart as he
was and see things the way he did. But, compared with the average
person of today, he was as different as a man from Mars."
     "Maybe he really _was_ a Martian," I suggested.
     "That would certainly go a long way toward explaining his
three strange kids."
Mayonnaise 28
     While Miss Faust and I waited for an elevator to take us to
the first floor, Miss Faust said she hoped the elevator that came
would not be number five. Before I could ask her why this was a
reasonable wish, number five arrived.
     Its operator was a small ancient Negro whose name was Lyman
Enders Knowles. Knowles was insane, I'm almost sure--offensively
so, in that he grabbed his own behind and cried, "Yes, yes!"
whenever he felt that he'd made a point.
     "Hello, fellow anthropoids and lily pads and paddlewheels,"
he said to Miss Faust and me. "Yes, yes!"
     "First floor, please," said Miss Faust coldly.
     All Knowles had to do to close the door and get us to the
first floor was to press a button, but he wasn't going to do that
yet. He wasn't going to do it, maybe, for years.
     "Man told me," he said, "that these here elevators was Mayan
architecture. I never knew that till today. And I says to him,
'What's that make me--mayonnaise?' Yes, yes! And while he was
thinking that over, I hit him with a question that straightened
him up and made him think twice as hard! Yes, yes!"
     "Could we please go down, Mr. Knowles?" begged Miss Faust.
     "I said to him," said Knowles, "'This here's a _re_-search
laboratory. _Re_-search means _look again_, don't it? Means
they're looking for something they found once and it got away

somehow, and now they got to _re_-search for it? How come they got
to build a building like this, with mayonnaise elevators and all,
and fill it with all these crazy people? What is it they're trying
to find again? Who lost what?' Yes, yes!"
     "That's very interesting," sighed Miss Faust. "Now, could we
go down?"
     "Only way we _can_ go is down," barked Knowles. "This here's
the top. You ask me to go up and wouldn't be a thing I could do
for you. Yes, yes!"
     "So let's go down," said Miss Faust.
     "Very soon now. This gentleman here been paying his respects
to Dr. Hoenikker?"
     "Yes," I said. "Did you know him?"
     "_Intimately_," he said. "You know what I said when he died?"
     "No."
     "I said, 'Dr. Hoenikker--he ain't dead.'"
     "Oh?"
     "Just entered a new dimension. Yes, yes!" He punched a
button, and down we went.
     "Did you know the Hoenikker children?" I asked him.
     "Babies full of rabies," he said. "Yes, yes!"
Gone, but Not Forgotten 29
     There was one more thing I wanted to do in Ilium. I wanted to
get a photograph of the old man's tomb. So I went back to my room,
found Sandra gone, picked up my camera, hired a cab.
     Sleet was still coming down, acid and gray. I thought the old
man's tombstone in all that sleet might photograph pretty well,
might even make a good picture for the jacket of _The Day the
World Ended_.
     The custodian at the cemetery gate told me how to find the
Hoenikker burial plot. "Can't miss it," he said. "It's got the
biggest marker in the place."
     He did not lie. The marker was an alabaster phallus twenty
feet high and three feet thick. It was plastered with sleet.

     "By God," I exclaimed, getting out of the cab with my camera,
"how's that for a suitable memorial to a father of the atom bomb?"
I laughed.
     I asked the driver if he'd mind standing by the monument in
order to give some idea of scale. And then I asked him to wipe
away some of the sleet so the name of the deceased would show.
He did so.
     And there on the shaft in letters six inches high, so help me
God, was the word:
MOTHER
Only Sleeping 30
     "Mother?" asked the driver, incredulously.
     I wiped away more sleet and uncovered this poem:
          Mother, Mother, how I pray
          For you to guard us every day.
                    --Angela Hoenikker
     And under this poem was yet another;
          You are not dead,
          But only sleeping.
          We should smile,
          And stop our weeping.
               --Franklin Hoenikker
     And underneath this, inset in the shaft, was a square of
cement bearing the imprint of an infant's hand. Beneath the
imprint were the words:

Baby Newt.
     "If that's Mother," said the driver, "what in hell could they
have raised over Father?" He made an obscene suggestion as to what
the appropriate marker might be.
     We found Father close by. His memorial--as specified in his
will, I later discovered--was a marble cube forty centimeters on
each side.
     "FATHER," it said.
Another Breed 31
     As we were leaving the cemetery the driver of the cab worried
about the condition of his own mother's grave. He asked if I would
mind taking a short detour to look at it.
     It was a pathetic little stone that marked his mother-- not
that it mattered.
     And the driver asked me if I would mind another brief detour,
this time to a tombstone salesroom across the street from the
cemetery.
     I wasn't a Bokononist then, so I agreed with some
peevishness. As a Bokononist, of course, I would have agreed gaily
to go anywhere anyone suggested. As Bokonon says: "Peculiar travel
suggestions are dancing lessons from God."
     The name of the tombstone establishment was Avram Breed and
Sons. As the driver talked to the salesman I wandered among the
monuments--blank monuments, monuments in memory of nothing so far.
     I found a little institutional joke in the showroom: over a
stone angel hung mistletoe. Cedar boughs were heaped on her
pedestal, and around her marble throat was a necklace of Christmas
tree lamps.
     "How much for her?" I asked the salesman.
     "Not for sale. She's a hundred years old. My
greatgrandfather, Avram Breed, carved her."
     "This business is that old?"
     "That's right."

     "And you're a Breed?"
     "The fourth generation in this location."
     "Any relation to Dr. Asa Breed, the director of the Research
Laboratory?"
     "His brother." He said his name was Marvin Breed.
     "It's a small world," I observed.
     "When you put it in a cemetery, it is." Marvin Breed was a
sleek and vulgar, a smart and sentimental man.
Dynamite Money 32
     "I just came from your brother's office. I'm a writer. I was
interviewing him about Dr. Hoenikker," I said to Marvin Breed.
     "There was one queer son of a bitch. Not my brother; I mean
Hoenikker."
     "Did you sell him that monument for his wife?"
     "I sold his kids that. He didn't have anything to do with it.
He never got around to putting any kind of marker on her grave.
And then, after she'd been dead for a year or more, Hoenikker's
three kids came in here--the big tall girl, the boy, and the
little baby. They wanted the biggest stone money could buy, and
the two older ones had poems they'd written. They wanted the poems
on the stone.
     "You can laugh at that stone, if you want to," said Marvin
Breed, "but those kids got more consolation out of that than
anything else money could have bought. They used to come and look
at it and put flowers on it I-don't-know-how-many-times a year."
     "It must have cost a lot."
     "Nobel Prize money bought it. Two things that money bought: a
cottage on Cape Cod and that monument."
      "Dynamite money," I marveled, thinking of the violence of
dynamite and the absolute repose of a tombstone and a summer home.
     "What?"
     "Nobel invented dynamite."
     "Well, I guess it takes all kinds . . ."
     Had I been a Bokononist then, pondering the miraculously
intricate chain of events that had brought dynamite money to that

particular tombstone company, I might have whispered, "Busy, busy,
busy."
     _Busy, busy, busy_, is what we Bokononists whisper whenever
we think of how complicated and unpredictable the machinery of
life really is.
     But all I could say as a Christian then was, "Life is sure
funny sometimes."
     "And sometimes it isn't," said Marvin Breed.
An Ungrateful Man 33
     I asked Marvin Breed if he'd known Emily Hoenikker, the wife
of Felix; the mother of Angela, Frank, and Newt; the woman under
that monstrous shaft.
     "Know her?" His voice turned tragic. "Did I _know_ her,
mister? Sure, I knew her. I knew Emily. We went to Ilium High
together. We were co-chairmen of the Class Colors Committee then.
Her father owned the Ilium Music Store. She could play every
musical instrument there was. I fell so hard for her I gave up
football and tried to play the violin. And then my big brother Asa
came home for spring vacation from M.I.T., and I made the mistake
of introducing him to my best girl." Marvin Breed' snapped his
fingers. "He took her away from me just like that. I smashed up my
seventy-five-dollar violin on a big brass knob at the foot of my
bed, and I went down to a florist shop and got the kind of box
they put a dozen roses in, and I put the busted fiddle in the box,
and I sent it to her by Western Union messenger boy."
     "Pretty, was she?"
     "Pretty?" he echoed. "Mister, when I see my first lady angel,
if God ever sees fit to show me one, it'll be her wings and not
her face that'll make my mouth fall open. I've already seen the
prettiest face that ever could be. There wasn't a man in Ilium
County who wasn't in love with her, secretly or otherwise. She
could have had any man she wanted." He spit on his own floor. "And
she had to go and marry that little Dutch son of a bitch! She was
engaged to my brother, and then that sneaky little bastard hit
town." Marvin Breed snapped his fingers again. "He took her away
from my big brother like that.

     "I suppose it's high treason and ungrateful and ignorant and
backward and anti-intellectual to call a dead man as famous as
Felix Hoenikker a son of a bitch. I know all about how harmless
and gentle and dreamy he was supposed to be, how he'd never hurt a
fly, how he didn't care about money and power and fancy clothes
and automobiles and things, how he wasn't like the rest of us, how
he was better than the rest of us, how he was so innocent he was
practically a Jesus--except for the Son of God part. .
     Marvin Breed felt it was unnecessary to complete his thought.
I had to ask him to do it.
     "But what?" he said. "But what?" He went to a window looking
out at the cemetery gate. "But what," he murmured at the gate and
the sleet and the Hoenikker shaft that could be dimly seen.
     "But," he said, "but how the hell innocent is a man who helps
make a thing like an atomic bomb? And how can you say a man had a
good mind when he couldn't even bother to do anything when the
best-hearted, most beautiful woman in the world, his own wife, was
dying for lack of love and understanding . . ."
     He shuddered, "Sometimes I wonder if he wasn't born dead. I
never met a man who was less interested in the living. Sometimes I
think that's the trouble with the world: too many people in high
places who are stone-cold dead."
Vin-dit 34
     It was in the tombstone salesroom that I had my first _vin-
dit_, a Bokononist word meaning a sudden, very personal shove in
the direction of Bokononism, in the direction of believing that
God Almighty knew all about me, after all, that God Almighty had
some pretty elaborate plans for me.
     The _vin-dit_ had to do with the stone angel under the
mistletoe. The cab driver had gotten it into his head that he had
to have that angel for his mother's grave at any price. He was
standing in front of it with tears in his eyes.
     Marvin Breed was still staring out the window at the cemetery
gate, having just said his piece about Felix Hoenikker. "The
little Dutch son of a bitch may have been a modern holy man," he

added, "But Goddamn if he ever did anything he didn't want to, and
Goddamn if he didn't get everything he ever wanted.
     "Music," he said.
     "Pardon me?" I asked.
     "That's why she married him. She said his mind was tuned to
the biggest music there was, the music of the stars." He shook his
head. "Crap."
     And then the gate reminded him of the last time he'd seen
Frank Hoenikker, the model-maker, the tormentor of bugs in jars.
"Frank," he said.
     "What about him?"
     "The last I saw of that poor, queer kid was when he came out
through that cemetery gate. His father's funeral was still going
on. The old man wasn't underground yet, and out through the gate
came Frank. He raised his thumb at the first car that came by. It
was a new Pontiac with a Florida license plate. It stopped. Frank
got in it, and that was the last anybody in Ilium ever saw of
him."
     "I hear he's wanted by the police."
     "That was an accident, a freak. Frank wasn't any criminal. He
didn't have that kind of nerve. The only work he was any good at
was model-making. The only job he ever held onto was at Jack's
Hobby Shop, selling models, making models, giving people advice on
how to make models. When he cleared out of here, went to Florida,
he got a job in a model shop in Sarasota. Turned out the model
shop was a front for a ring that stole Cadillacs, ran 'em straight
on board old L.S.T.'s and shipped 'em to Cuba. That's how Frank
got balled up in all that. I expect the reason the cops haven't
found him is he's dead. He just heard too much while he was
sticking turrets on the battleship _Missouri_ with Duco Cement."
     "Where's Newt now, do you know?"
     "Guess he's with his sister in Indianapolis. Last I heard was
he got mixed up with that Russian midget and flunked out of pre-
med at Cornell. Can you imagine a midget trying to become a
doctor? And, in that same miserable family, there's that great
big, gawky girl, over six feet tall. That man, who's so famous for
having a great mind, he pulled that girl out of high school in her
sophomore year so he could go on having some woman take care of
him. All she had going for her was the clarinet she'd played in
the Ilium High School band, the Marching Hundred.
     "After she left school," said Breed, "nobody ever asked her
out. She didn't have any friends, and the old man never even
thought to give her any money to go anywhere. You know what she
used to do?"
"Nope."
     "Every so often at night she'd lock herself in her room and
she'd play records, and she'd play along with the records on her

clarinet. The miracle of this age, as far as I'm concerned, is
that that woman ever got herself a husband."
     "How much do you want for this angel?" asked the cab driver.
     "I've told you, it's not for sale."
     "I don't suppose there's anybody around who can do that kind
of stone cutting any more," I observed.
     "I've got a nephew who can," said Breed. "Asa's boy. He was
all set to be a heap-big _re_-search scientist, and then they
dropped the bomb on Hiroshima and the kid quit, and he got drunk,
and he came out here, and he told me he wanted to go to work
cutting stone."
     "He works here now?"
     "He's a sculptor in Rome."
     "If somebody offered you enough," said the driver, "you'd
take it, wouldn't you?"
     "Might. But it would take a lot of money."
     "Where would you put the name on a thing like that?" asked
the driver.
     "There's already a name on it--on the pedestal." We couldn't
see the name, because of the boughs banked against the pedestal.
     "It was never called for?" I wanted to know.
     "It was never _paid_ for. The way the story goes: this German
immigrant was on his way West with his wife, and she died of
smallpox here in Ilium. So he ordered this angel to be put up over
her, and he showed my great-grandfather he had the cash to pay for
it. But then he was robbed. Somebody took practically every cent
he had. All he had left in this world was some land he'd bought in
Indiana, land he'd never seen. So he moved on--said he'd be back
later to pay for the angel."
     "But he never came back?" I asked.
     "Nope." Marvin Breed nudged some of the boughs aside with his
toe so that we could see the raised letters on the pedestal. There
was a last name written there. "There's a screwy name for you," he
said. "If that immigrant had any descendants, I expect they
Americanized the name. They're probably Jones or Black or Thompson
now."
     "There you're wrong," I murmured.
     The room seemed to tip, and its walls and ceiling and floor
were transformed momentarily into the mouths of many tunnels--
tunnels leading in all directions through time. I had a Bokononist
vision of the unity in every second of all time and all wandering
mankind, all wandering womankind, all wandering children.
     "There you're wrong," I said, when the vision was gone.
     "You know some people by that name?"
     "Yes."
     The name was my last name, too.

Hobby Shop 35
     On the way back to the hotel I caught sight of Jack's Hobby
Shop, the place where Franklin Hoenikker had worked. I told the
cab driver to stop and wait.
     I went in and found Jack himself presiding over his teeny-
weeny fire engines, railroad trains, airplanes, boats, houses,
lampposts, trees, tanks, rockets, automobiles, porters,
conductors, policemen, firemen, mommies, daddies, cats, dogs,
chickens, soldiers, ducks, and cows. He was a cadaverous man, a
serious man, a dirty man, and he coughed a lot.
     "What kind of a boy was Franklin Hoenikker?" he echoed, and
he coughed and coughed. He shook his head, and he showed me that
he adored Frank as much as he'd ever adored anybody. "That isn't a
question I have to answer with words. I can _show_ you what kind
of a boy Franklin Hoenikker was." He coughed. "You can look," he
said, "and you can judge for yourself."
     And he took me down into the basement of his store. He lived
down there. There was a double bed and a dresser and a hot plate.
     Jack apologized for the unmade bed. "My wife left me a week
ago." He coughed. "I'm still trying to pull the strings of my life
back together."
     And then he turned on a switch, and the far end of the
basement was filled with a blinding light.
     We approached the light and found that it was sunshine to a
fantastic little country build on plywood, an island as perfectly
rectangular as a township in Kansas. Any restless soul, any soul
seeking to find what lay beyond its green boundaries, really would
fall off the edge of the world.
     The details were so exquisitely in scale, so cunningly
textured and tinted, that it was unnecessary for me to squint in
order to believe that the nation was real--the hills, the lakes,
the rivers, the forests, the towns, and all else that good natives
everywhere hold so dear.
     And everywhere ran a spaghetti pattern of railroad tracks.
     "Look at the doors of the houses," said Jack reverently.
     "Neat. Keen."

     "They've got real knobs on 'em, and the knockers really
work."
"God."
     "You ask what kind of a boy Franklin Hoenikker was; he built
this." Jack choked up.
     "All by himself?"
     "Oh, I helped some, but anything I did was according to his
plans. That kid was a genius."
     "How could anybody argue with you?"
     "His kid brother was a midget, you know."
     "I know."
     "He did some of the soldering underneath."
     "It sure looks real."
     "It wasn't easy, and it wasn't done overnight, either."
     "Rome wasn't built in a day."
     "That kid didn't have any home life, you know."
     "I've heard."
     "This was his real home. Thousands of hours he spent down
here. Sometimes he wouldn't even run the trains; just sit and
look, the way we're doing."
     "There's a lot to see. It's practically like a trip to
Europe, there are so many things to see, if you look close."
     "He'd see things you and I wouldn't see. He'd all of a sudden
tear down a hill that would look just as real as any hill you ever
saw--to you and me. And he'd be right, too. He'd put a lake where
that hill had been and a trestle over the lake, and it would look
ten times as good as it did before."
     "It isn't a talent everybody has."
     "That's right!" said Jack passionately. The passion cost him
another coughing fit. When the fit was over, his eyes were
watering copiously. "Listen, I told that kid he should go to
college and study some engineering so he could go to work for
American Flyer or somebody like that--somebody big, somebody who'd
really back all the ideas he had."
     "Looks to me as if you backed him a good deal."
     "Wish I had, wish I could have," mourned Jack. "I didn't have
the capital. I gave him stuff whenever I could, but most of this
stuff he bought out of what he earned working upstairs for me. He
didn't spend a dime on anything but this--didn't drink, didn't
smoke, didn't go to movies, didn't go out with girls, wasn't car
crazy."
     "This country could certainly use a few more of those."
     Jack shrugged. "Well . . . I guess the Florida gangsters got
him. Afraid he'd talk."
     "Guess they did."

     Jack suddenly broke down and cried. "I wonder if those dirty
sons of bitches," he sobbed, "have any idea what it was they
killed!"
Meow 36
     During my trip to Ilium and to points beyond--a two-week
expedition bridging Christmas--I let a poor poet named Sherman
Krebbs have my New York City apartment free. My second wife had
left me on the grounds that I was too pessimistic for an optimist
to live with.
     Krebbs was a bearded man, a platinum blond Jesus with spaniel
eyes. He was no close friend of mine. I had met him at a cocktail
party where he presented himself as National Chairman of Poets and
Painters for Immediate Nuclear War. He begged for shelter, not
necessarily bomb proof, and it happened that I had some.
     When I returned to my apartment, still twanging with the
puzzling spiritual implications of the unclaimed stone angel in
Ilium, I found my apartment wrecked by a nihilistic debauch.
Krebbs was gone; but, before leaving, he had run up three-hundred-
dollars' worth of long-distance calls, set my couch on fire in
five places, killed my cat and my avocado tree, and torn the door
off my medicine cabinet.
     He wrote this poem, in what proved to be excrement, on the
yellow linoleum floor of my kitchen:
          I have a kitchen.
          But it is not a complete kitchen.
          I will not be truly gay
          Until I have a
          Dispose-all.
     There was another message, written in lipstick in a feminine
hand on the wallpaper over my bed. It said: "No, no, no, said
Chicken-licken."

     There was a sign hung around my dead cat's neck. It said,
"Meow."
     I have not seen Krebbs since. Nonetheless, I sense that he
was my _karass_. If he was, he served it as a _wrang-wrang_. A
_wrang-wrang_, according to Bokonon, is a person who steers people
away from a line of speculation by reducing that line, with the
example of the _wrang-wrang's_ own life, to an absurdity.
     I might have been vaguely inclined to dismiss the stone angel
as meaningless, and to go from there to the meaninglessness of
all. But after I saw what Krebbs had done, in particular what he
had done to my sweet cat, nihilism was not for me.
     Somebody or something did not wish me to be a nihilist. It
was Krebbs's mission, whether he knew it or not, to disenchant me
with that philosophy. Well, done, Mr. Krebbs, well done.
A Modern Major General 37
     And then, one day, one Sunday, I found out where the fugitive
from justice, the model-maker, the Great God Jehovah and Beelzebub
of bugs in Mason jars was--where Franklin Hoenikker could be
found.
He was alive!
     The news was in a special supplement to the New York _Sunday
Times_. The supplement was a paid ad for a banana republic. On its
cover was the profile of the most heartbreakingly beautiful girl I
ever hope to see.
     Beyond the girl, bulldozers were knocking down palm trees,
making a broad avenue. At the end of the avenue were the steel
skeletons of three new buildings.
     "The Republic of San Lorenzo," said the copy on the cover,
"on the move! A healthy, happy, progressive, freedom-loving,
beautiful nation makes itself extremely attractive to American
investors and tourists alike."
     I was in no hurry to read the contents. The girl on the cover
was enough for me--more than enough, since I had fallen in love
with her on sight. She was very young and very grave, too--and
luminously compassionate and wise.
     She was as brown as chocolate. Her hair was like golden flax.

     Her name was Mona Aamons Monzano, the cover said. She was the
adopted daughter of the dictator of the island.
     I opened the supplement, hoping for more pictures of this
sublime mongrel Madonna.
     I found instead a portrait of the island's dictator, Miguel
"Papa" Monzano, a gorilla in his late seventies.
     Next to "Papa's" portrait was a picture of a narrow-
shouldered, fox-faced, immature young man. He wore a snow white
military blouse with some sort of jeweled sunburst hanging on it.
His eyes were close together; they had circles under them. He had
apparently told barbers all his life to shave the sides and back
of his head, but to leave the top of his hair alone. He had a wiry
pompadour, a sort of cube of hair, marcelled, that arose to an
incredible height.
     This unattractive child was identified as Major General
Franklin Hoenikker, _Minister of Science and Progress in the
Republic of San Lorenzo_.
     He was twenty-six years old.
Barracuda Capital of the World 38
     San Lorenzo was fifty miles long and twenty miles wide, I
learned from the supplement to the New York _Sunday Times_. Its
population was four hundred, fifty thousand souls, ". . . all
fiercely dedicated to the ideals of the Free World."
     Its highest point, Mount McCabe, was eleven thousand feet
above sea level. Its capital was Bolivar, ". . . a strikingly
modern city built on a harbor capable of sheltering the entire
United States Navy." The principal exports were sugar, coffee,
bananas, indigo, and handcrafted novelties.
     "And sports fishermen recognize San Lorenzo as the
unchallenged barracuda capital of the world."
     I wondered how Franklin Hoenikker, who had never even
finished high school, had got himself such a fancy job. I found a
partial answer in an essay on San Lorenzo that was signed by
"Papa" Monzano.
     "Papa" said that Frank was the architect of the "San Lorenzo
Master Plan," which included new roads, rural electrification,

sewage-disposal plants, hotels, hospitals, clinics, railroads--the
works. And, though the essay was brief and tightly edited, "papa"
referred to Frank five times as: ". . . the _blood son_ of Dr.
Felix Hoenikker."
     The phrase reeked of cannibalism.
     "Papa" plainly felt that Frank was a chunk of the old man's
magic meat.
Fata Morgana 39
     A little more light was shed by another essay in the
supplement, a florid essay titled, "What San Lorenzo Has Meant to
One American." It was almost certainly ghost-written. It was
signed by Major General Franklin Hoenikker.
     In the essay, Frank told of being all alone on a nearly
swamped sixty-eight-foot Chris-Craft in the Caribbean. He didn't
explain what he was doing on it or how he happened to be alone. He
did indicate, though, that his point of departure had been Cuba.
     "The luxurious pleasure craft was going down, and my
meaningless life with it," said the essay. "All I'd eaten for four
days was two biscuits and a sea gull. The dorsal fins of man-
eating sharks were cleaving the warm seas around me, and needle-
teethed barracuda were making those waters boil.
     "I raised my eyes to my Maker, willing to accept whatever His
decision might be. And my eyes alit on a glorious mountain peak
above the clouds. Was this Fata Morgana--the cruel deception of a
mirage?"
     I looked up Fata Morgana at this point in my reading; learned
that it was, in fact, a mirage named after Morgan le Fay, a fairy
who lived at the bottom of a lake. It was famous for appearing in
the Strait of Messina, between Calabria and Sicily. Fata Morgana
was poetic crap, in short.
     What Frank saw from his sinking pleasure craft was not cruel
Fata Morgana, but the peak of Mount McCabe. Gentle seas then
nuzzled Frank's pleasure craft to the rocky shores of San Lorenzo,
as though God wanted him to go there.

     Frank stepped ashore, dry shod, and asked where he was. The
essay didn't say so, but the son of a bitch had a piece of _ice-
nine_ with him--in a thermos jug.
     Frank, having no passport, was put in jail in the capital
city of Bolivar. He was visited there by "Papa" Monzano, who
wanted to know if it were possible that Frank was a blood relative
of the immortal Dr. Felix Hoenikker.
     "I admitted I was," said Frank in the essay. "Since that
moment, every door to opportunity in San Lorenzo has been opened
wide to me."
House of Hope and Mercy 40
     As it happened--"As it was _supposed_ to happen," Bokonon
would say--I was assigned by a magazine to do a story in San
Lorenzo. The story wasn't to be about "Papa" Monzano or Frank. It
was to be about Julian Castle, an American sugar millionaire who
had, at the age of forty, followed the example of Dr. Albert
Schweitzer by founding a free hospital in a jungle, by devoting
his life to miserable folk of another race.
     Castle's hospital was called the House of Hope and Mercy in
the Jungle. Its jungle was on San Lorenzo, among the wild coffee
trees on the northern slope of Mount McCabe.
     When I flew to San Lorenzo, Julian Castle was sixty years
old.
     He had been absolutely unselfish for twenty years.
     In his selfish days he had been as familiar to tabloid
readers as Tommy Manville, Adolf Hitler, Benito Mussolini, and
Barbara Hutton. His fame had rested on lechery, alcoholism,
reckless driving, and draft evasion. He had had a dazzling talent
for spending millions without increasing mankind's stores of
anything but chagrin.
     He had been married five times, had produced one son. The one
son, Philip Castle, was the manager and owner of the hotel at
which I planned to stay. The hotel was called the Casa Mona and
was named after Mona Aamons Monzano, the blonde Negro on the cover
of the supplement to the New York _Sunday Times_. The Casa Mona

was brand new; it was one of the three new buildings in the
background of the supplement's portrait of Mona.
     While I didn't feel that purposeful seas were wafting me to
San Lorenzo, I did feel that love was doing the job. The Fata
Morgana, the mirage of what it would be like to be loved by Mona
Aamons Monzano, had become a tremendous force in my meaningless
life. I imagined that she could make me far happier than any woman
had so far succeeded in doing.
A Karass Built for Two 41
     The seating on the airplane, bound ultimately for San Lorenzo
from Miami, was three and three. As it happened-- "As it was
_supposed_ to happen"--my seatmates were Horlick Minton, the new
American Ambassador to the Republic of San Lorenzo, and his wife,
Claire. They were whitehaired, gentle, and frail.
     Minton told me that he was a career diplomat, holding the
rank of Ambassador for the first time. He and his wife had so far
served, he told me, in Bolivia, Chile, Japan, France, Yugoslavia,
Egypt, the Union of South Africa, Liberia, and Pakistan.
     They were lovebirds. They entertained each other endlessly
with little gifts: sights worth seeing out the plane window,
amusing or instructive bits from things they read, random
recollections of times gone by. They were, I think, a flawless
example of what Bokonon calls a _duprass_, which is a _karass_
composed of only two persons.
     "A true _duprass_," Bokonon tells us, "can't be invaded, not
even by children born of such a union."
     I exclude the Mintons, therefore, from my own _karass_, from
Frank's _karass_, from Newt's _karass_, from Asa Breed's _karass_,
from Angela's _karass_, from Lyman Enders Knowles's _karass_, from
Sherman Krebbs's _karass_. The Mintons' _karass_ was a tidy one,
composed of only two.
     "I should think you'd be very pleased," I said to Minton.
     "What should I be pleased about?"
     "Pleased to have the rank of Ambassador."
     From the pitying way Minton and his wife looked at each
other, I gathered that I had said a fat-headed thing. But they

humored me. "Yes," winced Minton, "I'm very pleased." He smiled
wanly. "I'm _deeply_ honored."
     And so it went with almost every subject I brought up. I
couldn't make the Mintons bubble about anything.
     For instance: "I suppose you can speak a lot of languages," I
said.
     "Oh, six or seven--between us," said Minton"
     "That must be very gratifying."
     "What must?"
     "Being able to speak to people of so many different
nationalities."
     "Very gratifying," said Minton emptily.
     "Very gratifying," said his wife.
     And they went back to reading a fat, typewritten manuscript
that was spread across the chair arm between them.
     "Tell me," I said a little later, "in all your wide travels,
have you found people everywhere about the same at heart?"
     "Hm?" asked Minton.
     "Do you find people to be about the same at heart, wherever
you go?"
     He looked at his wife, making sure she had heard the
question, then turned back to me. "About the same, wherever you
go," he agreed.
"Um," I said.
     Bokonon tells us, incidentally, that members of a _duprass_
always die within a week of each other. When it came time for the
Mintons to die, they did it within the same second.
Bicycles for Afghanistan 42
     There was a small saloon in the rear of the plane and I
repaired there for a drink. It was there that I met another fellow
American, H. Lowe Crosby of Evanston, Illinois, and his wife,
Hazel.
     They were heavy people, in their fifties. They spoke
twangingly. Crosby told me that he owned a bicycle factory in
Chicago, that he had had nothing but ingratitude from his

employees. He was going to move his business to grateful San
Lorenzo.
     "You know San Lorenzo well?" I asked.
     "This'll be the first time I've ever seen it, but everything
I've heard about it I like," said H. Lowe Crosby. "They've got
discipline, They've got something you can count on from one year
to the next. They don't have the government encouraging everybody
to be some kind of original pissant nobody every heard of before."
"Sir?"
     "Christ, back in Chicago, we don't make bicycles any more.
It's all human relations now. The eggheads sit around trying to
figure out new ways for everybody to be happy. Nobody can get
fired, no matter what; and if somebody does accidentally make a
bicycle, the union accuses us of cruel and inhuman practices and
the government confiscates the bicycle for back taxes and gives it
to a blind man in Afghanistan."
     "And you think things will be better in San Lorenzo?"
     "I know damn well they will be. The people down there are
poor enough and scared enough and ignorant enough to have some
common sense!"
     Crosby asked me what my name was and what my business was. I
told him, and his wife Hazel recognized my name as an Indiana
name. She was from Indiana, too.
     "My God," she said, "are you a _Hoosier?_"
     I admitted I was.
     "I'm a Hoosier, too," she crowed. "Nobody has to be ashamed
of being a Hoosier."
     "I'm not," I said. "I never knew anybody who was."
     "Hoosiers do all right. Lowe and I've been around the world
twice, and everywhere we went we found Hoosiers in charge of
everything."
     "That's reassuring."
     "You know the manager of that new hotel in Istanbul?"
     "No."
     "He's a Hoosier. And the military-whatever-he-is in Tokyo . .
."
     "Attaché," said her husband.
     "He's a Hoosier," said Hazel. "And the new Ambassador to
Yugoslavia . . ."
     "A Hoosier?" I asked.
     "Not only him, but the Hollywood Editor of _Life_ magazine,
too. And that man in Chile . . ."
     "A Hoosier, too?"
     "You can't go anywhere a _Hoosier_ hasn't made his mark," she
said.
     "The man who wrote _Ben Hur_ was a Hoosier."
     "And James Whitcomb Riley."

     "Are you from Indiana, too?" I asked her husband.
     "Nope. I'm a Prairie Stater. 'Land of Lincoln,' as they say."
     "As far as that goes," said Hazel triumphantly, "Lincoln was
a Hoosier, too. He grew up in Spencer County."
     "Sure," I said.
     "I don't know what it is about Hoosiers," said Hazel, "but
they've sure got something. If somebody was to make a list, they'd
be amazed."
     "That's true," I said.
     She grasped me firmly by the arm. "We Hoosiers got to stick
together."
     "Right."
     "You call me 'Mom.'"
     "What?"
     "Whenever I meet a young Hoosier, I tell them, 'You call me
_Mom_.'"
     "Uh huh."
     "Let me hear you say it," she urged.
     "Mom?"
     She smiled and let go of my arm. Some piece of clockwork had
completed its cycle. My calling Hazel "Mom" had shut it off, and
now Hazel was rewinding it for the next Hoosier to come along.
     Hazel's obsession with Hoosiers around the world was a
textbook example of a false _karass_, of a seeming team that was
meaningless in terms of the ways God gets things done, a textbook
example of what Bokonon calls a _granfalloon_. Other examples of
_granfalloons_ are the Communist party, the Daughters of the
American Revolution, the General Electric Company, the
International Order of Odd Fellows--and any nation, anytime,
anywhere.
     As Bokonon invites us to sing along with him:
          If you wish to study a _granfalloon_,
          Just remove the skin of a toy balloon.
The Demonstrator 43

     H. Lowe Crosby was of the opinion that dictatorships were
often very good things. He wasn't a terrible person and he wasn't
a fool. It suited him to confront the world with a certain barn-
yard clownishness, but many of the things he had to say about
undisciplined mankind were not only funny but true.
     The major point at which his reason and his sense of humor
left him was when he approached the question of what people were
really supposed to do with their time on Earth.
     He believed firmly that they were meant to build bicycles for
him.
     "I hope San Lorenzo is every bit as good as you've heard it
is," I said.
     "I only have to talk to one man to find out if it is or not,"
he said. "When 'Papa' Monzano gives his word of honor about
anything on that little island, that's it. That's how it is;
that's how it'll be."
     "The thing I like," said Hazel, "is they all speak English
and they're all Christians. That makes things so much easier."
     "You know how they deal with crime down there?" Crosby asked
me.
"Nope."
     "They just don't have any crime down there. 'Papa' Monzano's
made crime so damn unattractive, nobody even thinks about it
without getting sick. I heard you can lay a billfold in the middle
of a sidewalk and you can come back a week later and it'll be
right there, with everything still in it."
     "Um."
     "You know what the punishment is for stealing something?"
     "Nope."
     "The hook," he said. "No fines, no probation, no thirty days
in jail. It's the hook. The hook for stealing, for murder, for
arson, for treason, for rape, for being a peeping Tom. Break a
law--any damn law at all--and it's the hook. Everybody can
understand that, and San Lorenzo is the best-behaved country in
the world."
     "What is the hook?"
     "They put up a gallows, see? Two posts and a cross beam. And
then they take a great big kind of iron fishhook and they hang it
down from the cross beam. Then they take somebody who's dumb
enough to break the law, and they put the point of the hook in
through one side of his belly and out the other and they let him
go--and there he hangs, by God, one damn sorry law-breaker."
"Good God!"
     "I don't say it's good," said Crosby, "but I don't say it's
bad either. I sometimes wonder if something like that wouldn't
clear up juvenile delinquency. Maybe the hook's a little extreme
for a democracy. Public hanging's more like it. String up a few

teen-age car thieves on lampposts in front of their houses with
signs around their necks saying, 'Mama, here's your boy.' Do that
a few times and I think ignition locks would go the way of the
rumble seat and the running board."
     "We saw that thing in the basement of the waxworks in
London," said Hazel.
     "What thing?" I asked her.
     "The hook. Down in the Chamber of Horrors in the basement;
they had a wax person hanging from the hook. It looked so real I
wanted to throw up."
     "Harry Truman didn't look anything like Harry Truman," said
Crosby.
"Pardon me?"
     "In the waxworks," said Crosby. "The statue of Truman didn't
really look like him."
     "Most of them did, though," said Hazel.
     "Was it anybody in particular hanging from the hook?" I asked
her.
     "I don't think so. It was just somebody."
     "Just a demonstrator?" I asked.
     "Yeah. There was a black velvet curtain in front of it and
you had to pull the curtain back to see. And there was a note
pinned to the curtain that said children weren't supposed to
look."
     "But kids did," said Crosby. "There were kids down there, and
they all looked."
     "A sign like that is just catnip to kids," said Hazel.
     "How did the kids react when they saw the person on the
hook?" I asked.
     "Oh," said Hazel, "they reacted just about the way the
grownups did. They just looked at it and didn't say anything, just
moved on to see what the next thing was."
     "What was the next thing?"
     "It was an iron chair a man had been roasted alive in," said
Crosby. "He was roasted for murdering his son."
     "Only, after they roasted him," Hazel recalled blandly, "they
found out he hadn't murdered his son after all."
Communist Sympathizers 44

     When I again took my seat beside the _duprass_ of Claire and
Horlick Minton, I had some new information about them. I got it
from the Crosbys.
     The Crosbys didn't know Minton, but they knew his reputation.
They were indignant about his appointment as Ambassador. They told
me that Minton had once been fired by the State Department for his
softness toward communism, and the Communist dupes or worse had
had him reinstated.
     "Very pleasant little saloon back there," I said to Minton
as I sat down.
     "Hm?" He and his wife were still reading the manuscript that
lay between them.
     "Nice bar back there."
     "Good. I'm glad."
     The two read on, apparently uninterested in talking to me.
And then Minton turned to me suddenly, with a bittersweet smile,
and he demanded, "Who was he, anyway?"
     "Who was who?"
     "The man you were talking to in the bar. We went back there
for a drink, and, when we were just outside, we heard you and a
man talking. The man was talking very loudly. He said I was a
Communist sympathizer."
     "A bicycle manufacturer named H. Lowe Crosby," I said. I felt
myself reddening.
     "I was fired for pessimism. Communism had nothing to do with
it."
     "I got him fired," said his wife. "The only piece of real
evidence produced against him was a letter I wrote to the New York
_Times_ from Pakistan."
     "What did it say?"
     "It said a lot of things," she said, "because I was very
upset about how Americans couldn't imagine what it was like to be
something else, to be something else and proud of it."
"I see."
     "But there was one sentence they kept coming to again and
again in the loyalty hearing," sighed Minton. "'Americans,'" he
said, quoting his wife's letter to the _Times_, "'are forever
searching for love in forms it never takes, in places it can never
be. It must have something to do with the vanished frontier.'"

Why Americans Are Hated 45
     Claire Minton's letter to the _Times_ was published during
the worst of the era of Senator McCarthy, and her husband was
fired twelve hours after the letter was printed.
     "What was so awful about the letter?" I asked.
     "The highest possible form of treason," said Minton, "is to
say that Americans aren't loved wherever they go, whatever they
do. Claire tried to make the point that American foreign policy
should recognize hate rather than imagine love."
     "I guess Americans _are_ hated a lot of places."
     "_People_ are hated a lot of places. Claire pointed out in
her letter that Americans, in being hated, were simply paying the
normal penalty for being people, and that they were foolish to
think they should somehow be exempted from that penalty. But the
loyalty board didn't pay any attention to that. All they knew was
that Claire and I both felt that Americans were unloved."
     "Well, I'm glad the story had a happy ending."
     "Hm?" said Minton.
     "It finally came out all right," I said. "Here you are on
your way to an embassy all your own."
     Minton and his wife exchanged another of those pitying
_duprass_ glances. Then Minton said to me, "Yes. The pot of gold
at the end of the rainbow is ours."
The Bokononist Method for Handling Caesar 46
     I talked to the Mintons about the legal status of Franklin
Hoenikker, who was, after all, not only a big shot in "Papa"
Monzano's government, but a fugitive from United States justice.
     "That's all been written off," said Minton. "He isn't a
United States citizen any more, and he seems to be doing good
things where he is, so that's that."
     "He gave up his citizenship?"

     "Anybody who declares allegiance to a foreign state or serves
in its armed forces or accepts employment in its government loses
his citizenship. Read your passport. You can't lead the sort of
funny-paper international romance that Frank has led and still
have Uncle Sam for a mother chicken."
     "Is he well liked in San Lorenzo?"
     Minton weighed in his hands the manuscript he and his wife
had been reading. "I don't know yet. This book says not."
     "What book is that?"
     "It's the only scholarly book ever written about San
Lorenzo."
     "_Sort_ of scholarly," said Claire.
     "Sort of scholarly," echoed Minton. "It hasn't been published
yet. This is one of five copies." He handed it to me, inviting me
to read as much as I liked.
     I opened the book to its title page and found that the name
of the book was _San Lorenzo: The Land, the History, the People_.
The author was Philip Castle, the son of Julian Castle, the hotel-
keeping son of the great altruist I was on my way to see.
     I let the book fall open where it would. As it happened, it
fell open to the chapter about the island's outlawed holy man,
Bokonon.
     There was a quotation from _The Books of Bokonon_ on the page
before me. Those words leapt from the page and into my mind, and
they were welcomed there.
     The words were a paraphrase of the suggestion by Jesus:
"Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's."
     Bokonon's paraphrase was this:
     "Pay no attention to Caesar. Caesar doesn't have the
slightest idea what's _really_ going on."
Dynamic Tension 47
     I became so absorbed in Philip Castle's book that I didn't
even look up from it when we put down for ten minutes in San Juan,
Puerto Rico. I didn't even look up when somebody behind me
whispered, thrilled, that a midget had come aboard.

     A little while later I looked around for the midget, but
could not see him. I did see, right in front of Hazel and H. Lowe
Crosby, a horse-faced woman with platinum blonde hair, a woman new
to the passenger list. Next to hers was a seat that appeared to be
empty, a seat that might well have sheltered a midget without my
seeing even the top of his head.
     But it was San Lorenzo--the land, the history, the people--
that intrigued me then, so I looked no harder for the midget.
Midgets are, after all, diversions for silly or quiet times, and I
was serious and excited about Bokonon's theory of what he called
"Dynamic Tension," his sense of a priceless equilibrium between
good and evil.
     When I first saw the term "Dynamic Tension" in Philip
Castle's book, I laughed what I imagined to be a superior laugh.
The term was a favorite of Bokonon's, according to young Castle's
book, and I supposed that I knew something that Bokonon didn't
know: that the term was one vu!garized by Charles Atlas, a mail-
order muscle-builder.
     As I learned when I read on, briefly, Bokonon knew exactly
who Charles Atlas was. Bokonon was, in fact, an alumnus of his
muscle-building school.
     It was the belief of Charles Atlas that muscles could be
built without bar bells or spring exercisers, could be built by
simply pitting one set of muscles against another.
     It was the belief of Bokonon that good societies could be
built only by pitting good against evil, and by keeping the
tension between the two high at all times.
     And, in Castle's book, I read my first Bokononist poem, or
"Calypso." It went like this:
          "Papa" Monzano, he's so very bad,
          But without bad "Papa" I would be so sad;
          Because without "Papa's" badness,
          Tell me, if you would,
          How could wicked old Bokonon
          Ever, ever look good?
Just Like Saint Augustine 48

     Bokonon, I learned from Castle's book, was born in 1891. He
was a Negro, born an Episcopalian and a British subject on the
island of Tobago.
     He was christened Lionel Boyd Johnson.
     He was the youngest of six children, born to a wealthy
family. His family's wealth derived from the discovery by
Bokonon's grandfather of one quarter of a million dollars in
buried pirate treasure, presumably a treasure of Blackbeard, of
Edward Teach.
     Blackbeard's treasure was reinvested by Bokonon's family in
asphalt, copra, cacao, livestock, and poultry.
     Young Lionel Boyd Johnson was educated in Episcopal schools,
did well as a student, and was more interested in ritual than
most. As a youth, for all his interest in the outward trappings of
organized religion, he seems to have been a carouser, for he
invites us to sing along with him in his "Fourteenth Calypso":
          When I was young,
          I was so gay and mean,
          And I drank and chased the girls
          Just like young St. Augustine.
          Saint Augustine,
          He got to be a saint.
          So, if I get to be one, also,
          Please, Mama, don't you faint.
A Fish Pitched Up by an Angry Sea 49
     Lionel Boyd Johnson was intellectually ambitious enough, in
1911, to sail alone from Tobago to London in a sloop named the
_Lady's Slipper_. His purpose was to gain a higher education.
     He enrolled in the London School of Economics and Political
Science.
     His education was interrupted by the First World War. He
enlisted in the infantry, fought with distinction, was

commissioned in the field, was mentioned four times in dispatches.
He was gassed in the second Battle of Ypres, was hospitalized for
two years, and then discharged.
     And he set sail for home, for Tobago, alone in the _Lady's
Slipper_ again.
     When only eighty miles from home, he was stopped and searched
by a German submarine, the _U-99_. He was taken prisoner, and his
little vessel was used by the Huns for target practice. While
still surfaced, the submarine was surprised and captured by the
British destroyer, the _Raven_.
     Johnson and the Germans were taken on board the destroyer and
the _U-99_ was sunk.
     The _Raven_ was bound for the Mediterranean, but it never got
there. It lost its steering; it could only wallow helplessly or
make grand, clockwise circles. It came to rest at last in the Cape
Verde Islands.
     Johnson stayed in those islands for eight months, awaiting
some sort of transportation to the Western Hemisphere.
     He got a job at last as a crewman on a fishing vessel that
was carrying illegal immigrants to New Bedford, Massachusetts. The
vessel was blown ashore at Newport, Rhode Island.
     By that time Johnson had developed a conviction that
something was trying to get him somewhere for some reason. So he
stayed in Newport for a while to see if he had a destiny there. He
worked as a gardener and carpenter on the famous Rumfoord Estate.
     During that time, he glimpsed many distinguished guests of
the Rumfoords, among them, J. P. Morgan, General John J. Pershing,
Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Enrico Caruso, Warren Gamaliel Harding,
and Harry Houdini. And it was during that time that the First
World War came to an end, having killed ten million persons and
wounded twenty million, Johnson among them.
     When the war ended, the young rakehell of the Rumfoord
family, Remington Rumfoord, IV, proposed to sail his steam yacht,
the _Scheherazade_, around the world, visiting Spain, France,
Italy, Greece, Egypt, India, China, and Japan. He invited Johnson
to accompany him as first mate, and Johnson agreed.
     Johnson saw many wonders of the world on the voyage. The
_Scheherazade_ was rammed in a fog in Bombay harbor, and only
Johnson survived. He stayed in India for two years, becoming a
follower of Mohandas K. Gandhi. He was arrested for leading groups
that protested British rule by lying down on railroad tracks. When
his jail term was over, he was shipped at Crown expense to his
home in Tobago.
     There, he built another schooner, which he called the _Lady's
Slipper II_.

     And he sailed her about the Caribbean, an idler, still
seeking the storm that would drive him ashore on what was
unmistakably his destiny.
     In 1922, he sought shelter from a hurricane in Port-au-
Prince, Haiti, which country was then occupied by United States
Marines.
     Johnson was approached there by a brilliant, self-educated,
idealistic Marine deserter named Earl McCabe. McCabe was a
corporal. He had just stolen his company's recreation fund. He
offered Johnson five hundred dollars for transportation to Miami.
     The two set sail for Miami.
     But a gale hounded the schooner onto the rocks of San
Lorenzo. The boat went down. Johnson and McCabe, absolutely naked,
managed to swim ashore. As Bokonon himself reports the adventure:
          A fish pitched up
          By the angry sea,
          I gasped on land,
          And I became me.
     He was enchanted by the mystery of coming ashore naked on an
unfamiliar island. He resolved to let the adventure run its full
course, resolved to see just how far a man might go, emerging
naked from salt water.
     It was a rebirth for him:
          Be like a baby,
          The Bible say,
          So I stay like a baby
          To this very day.
     How he came by the name of Bokonon was very simple. "Bokonon"
was the pronunciation given the name Johnson in the island's
English dialect.
     As for that dialect . . .
     The dialect of San Lorenzo is both easy to understand and
difficult to write down. I say it is easy to understand, but I
speak only for myself. Others have found it as incomprehensible as
Basque, so my understanding of it may be telepathic.
     Philip Castle, in his book, gave a phonetic demonstration of
the dialect and caught its flavor very well. He chose for his
sample the San Lorenzan version of "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little
Star."

     In American English, one version of that immortal poem goes
like this:
          Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
          How I wonder what you are,
          Shining in the sky so bright,
          Like a tea tray in the night,
          Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
          How I wonder what you are.
     In San Lorenzan dialect, according to Castle, the same poem
went like this:
          _Tsvent-kiul, tsvent-kiul, lett-pool store,_
          _Ko jy tsvantoor bat voo yore._
          _Put-shinik on lo shee zo brath,_
          _Kam oon teetron on lo nath,_
          _Tsvent-kiul, tsvent-kiul, lett-poll store,_
          _Ko jy tsvantoor bat voo yore._
     Shortly after Johnson became Bokonon, incidentally, the
lifeboat of his shattered ship was found on shore. That boat was
later painted gold and made the bed of the island's chief
executive.
     "There is a legend, made up by Bokonon," Philip Castle wrote
in his book, "that the golden boat will sail again when the end of
the world is near."
A Nice Midget 50
     My reading of the life of Bokonon was interrupted by H. Lowe
Crosby's wife, Hazel. She was standing in the aisle next to me.
"You'll never believe it," she said, "but I just found two more
Hoosiers on this airplane."
     "I'll be damned."

     "They weren't born Hoosiers, but they _live_ there now. They
live in Indianapolis."
     "Very interesting."
     "You want to meet them?"
     "You think I should?"
     The question baffled her. "They're your fellow Hoosiers."
     "What are their names?"
     "Her name is Conners and his name is Hoenikker. They're
brother and sister, and he's a midget. He's a nice midget,
though." She winked. "He's a smart little thing."
     "Does he call you Mom?"
     "I almost asked him to. And then I stopped, and I wondered if
maybe it wouldn't be rude to ask a midget to do that."
"Nonsense."
O.K., Mom 51
     So I went aft to talk to Angela Hoenikker Conners and little
Newton Hoenikker, members of my _karass_.
     Angela was the horse-faced platinum blonde I had noticed
earlier.
     Newt was a very tiny young man indeed, though not grotesque.
He was as nicely scaled as Gulliver among the Brobdingnagians, and
as shrewdly watchful, too.
     He held a glass of champagne, which was included in the price
of his ticket. That glass was to him what a fishbowl would have
been to a normal man, but he drank from it with elegant ease--as
though he and the glass could not have been better matched.
     The little son of a bitch had a crystal of _ice-nine_ in a
thermos bottle in his luggage, and so did his miserable sister,
while under us was God's own amount of water, the Caribbean Sea.
     When Hazel had got all the pleasure she could from
introducing Hoosiers to Hoosiers, she left us alone. "Remember,"
she said as she left us, "from now on, call me _Mom_."
     "O.K., Mom," I said.
     "O.K., Mom," said Newt. His voice was fairly high, in keeping
with his little larynx. But he managed to make that voice
distinctly masculine.

     Angela persisted in treating Newt like an infant--and he
forgave her for it with an amiable grace I would have thought
impossible for one so small.
     Newt and Angela remembered me, remembered the letters I'd
written, and invited me to take the empty seat in their group of
three.
     Angela apologized to me for never having answered my letters.
     "I couldn't think of anything to say that would interest
anybody reading a book. I could have made up something about that
day, but I didn't think you'd want that. Actually, the day was
just like a regular day."
     "Your brother here wrote me a very good letter."
     Angela was surprised. "Newt did? How could Newt remember
anything?" She turned to him. "Honey, you don't remember anything
about that day, do you? You were just a baby."
     "I remember," he said mildly.
     "I wish I'd _seen_ the letter." She implied that Newt was
still too immature to deal directly with the outside world. Angela
was a God-awfully insensitive woman, with no feeling for what
smallness meant to Newt.
     "Honey, you should have showed me that letter," she scolded.
     "Sorry," said Newt. "I didn't think."
     "I might as well tell you," Angela said to me, "Dr. Breed
told me I wasn't supposed to co-operate with you. He said you
weren't interested in giving a fair picture of Father." She showed
me that she didn't like me for that.
     I placated her some by telling her that the book would
probably never be done anyway, that I no longer had a clear idea
of what it would or should mean.
     "Well, if you ever _do_ do the book, you better make Father a
saint, because that's what he was."
     I promised that I would do my best to paint that picture. I
asked if she and Newt were bound for a family reunion with Frank
in San Lorenzo.
     "Frank's getting married," said Angela. "We're going to the
engagement party."
     "Oh? Who's the lucky girl?"
     "I'll show you," said Angela, and she took from her purse a
billfold that contained a sort of plastic accordion. In each of
the accordion's pleats was a photograph. Angela flipped through
the photographs, giving me glimpses of little Newt on a Cape Cod
beach, of Dr. Felix Hoenikker accepting his Nobel Prize, of
Angela's own homely twin girls, of Frank flying a model plane on
the end of a string.
     And then she showed me a picture of the girl Frank was going
to marry.
     She might, with equal effect, have struck me in the groin.

     The picture she showed me was of Mona Aamons Monzano, the
woman I loved.
No Pain 52
     Once Angela had opened her plastic accordion, she was
reluctant to close it until someone had looked at every
photograph.
     "There are the people I love," she declared.
     So I looked at the people she loved. What she had trapped in
plexiglass, what she had trapped like fossil beetles in amber,
were the images of a large part of our _karass_. There wasn't a
_granfallooner_ in the collection.
     There were many photographs of Dr. Hoenikker, father of a
bomb, father of three children, father of _ice-nine_. He was a
little person, the purported sire of a midget and a giantess.
     My favorite picture of the old man in Angela's fossil
collection showed him all bundled up for winter, in an overcoat,
scarf, galoshes, and a wool knit cap with a big pom-pom on the
crown.
     This picture, Angela told me, with a catch in her throat, had
been taken in Hyannis just about three hours before the old man
died. A newspaper photographer had recognized the seeming
Christmas elf for the great man he was.
     "Did your father die in the hospital?"
     "Oh, no! He died in our cottage, in a big white wicker chair
facing the sea. Newt and Frank had gone walking down the beach in
the snow . . ."
     "It was a very warm snow," said Newt. "It was almost like
walking through orange blossoms. It was very strange. Nobody was
in any of the other cottages . . ."
     "Ours was the only one with heat," said Angela.
     "Nobody within miles," recalled Newt wonderingly, "and Frank
and I came across this big black dog out on the beach, a Labrador
retriever. We threw sticks into the ocean and he brought them
back."
     "I'd gone back into the village for more Christmas tree
bulbs," said Angela. "We always had a tree."

     "Did your father enjoy having a Christmas tree?"
     "He never said," said Newt.
     "I think he liked it," said Angela. "He just wasn't very
demonstrative. Some people aren't."
     "And some people are," said Newt. He gave a small shrug.
     "Anyway," said Angela, "when we got back home, we found him
in the chair." She shook her head. "I don't think he suffered any.
He just looked asleep. He couldn't have looked like that if
there'd been the least bit of pain."
     She left out an interesting part of the story. She left out
the fact that it was on that same Christmas Eve that she and Frank
and little Newt had divided up the old man's _ice-nine_.
The President of Fabri-Tek 53
     Angela encouraged me to go on looking at snapshots.
     "That's me, if you can believe it." She showed me an
adolescent girl six feet tall. She was holding a clarinet in the
picture, wearing the marching uniform of the Ilium High School
band. Her hair was tucked up under a bandsman's hat. She was
smiling with shy good cheer.
     And then Angela, a woman to whom God had given virtually
nothing with which to catch a man, showed me a picture of her
husband.
     "So that's Harrison C. Conners." I was stunned. Her husband
was a strikingly handsome man, and looked as though he knew it. He
was a snappy dresser, and had the lazy rapture of a Don Juan
about.the eyes.
     "What--what does he do?" I asked.
     "He's president of Fabri-Tek."
     "Electronics?"
     "I couldn't tell you, even if I knew. It's all very secret
government work."
     "Weapons?"
     "Well, war anyway."
     "How did you happen to meet?"
     "He used to work as a laboratory assistant to Father," said
Angela. "Then he went out to Indianapolis and started Fabri-Tek."

     "So your marriage to him was a happy ending to a long
romance?"
     "No. I didn't even know he knew I was alive. I used to think
he was nice, but he never paid any attention to me until after
Father died.
     "One day he came through Ilium. I was sitting around that big
old house, thinking my life was over . . ." She spoke of the awful
days and weeks that followed her father's death. "Just me and
little Newt in that big old house. Frank had disappeared, and the
ghosts were making ten times as much noise as Newt and I were. I'd
given my whole life to taking care of Father, driving him to and
from work, bundling him up when it was cold, unbundling him when
it was hot, making him eat, paying his bills. Suddenly, there
wasn't anything for me to do. I'd never had any close friends,
didn't have a soul to turn to but Newt.
     "And then," she continued, "there was a knock on the door--
and there stood Harrison Conners. He was the most beautiful thing
I'd ever seen. He came in, and we talked about Father's last days
and about old times in general."
     Angela almost cried now.
     "Two weeks later, we were married."
Communists, Nazis, Royalists, Parachutists, and Draft Dodgers 54
     Returning to my own seat in the plane, feeling far shabbier
for having lost Mona Aamons Monzano to Frank, I resumed my reading
of Philip Castle's manuscript.
     I looked up _Monzano, Mona Aamons_ in the index, and was told
by the index to see Aamons, Mona.
     So I saw _Aamons, Mona_, and found almost as many page
references as I'd found after the name of "Papa" Monzano himself.
     And after _Aamons, Mona_ came _Aamons, Nestor_. So I turned
to the few pages that had to do with Nestor, and learned that he
was Mona's father, a native Finn, an architect.
     Nestor Aamons was captured by the Russians, then liberated by
the Germans during the Second World War. He was not returned home
by his liberators, but was forced to serve in a _Wehrmacht_
engineer unit that was sent to fight the Yugoslav partisans. He

was captured by Chetniks, royalist Serbian partisans, and then by
Communist partisans who attacked the Chetniks. He was liberated by
Italian parachutists who surprised the Communists, and he was
shipped to Italy.
     The Italians put him to work designing fortifications for
Sicily. He stole a fishing boat in Sicily, and reached neutral
Portugal.
     While there, he met an American draft dodger named Julian
Castle.
     Castle, upon learning that Aamons was an architect, invited
him to come with him to the island of San Lorenzo and to design
for him a hospital to be called the House of Hope and Mercy in the
Jungle.
     Aamons accepted. He designed the hospital, married a native
woman named Celia, fathered a perfect daughter, and died.
Never Index Your Own Book 55
     As for the life of _Aamons, Mona_, the index itself gave a
jangling, surrealistic picture of the many conflicting forces that
had been brought to bear on her and of her dismayed reactions to
them.
     "_Aamons, Mona:_" the index said, "adopted by Monzano in
order to boost Monzano's popularity, 194-199, 216a.; childhood in
compound of House of Hope and Mercy, 63-81; childhood romance with
P. Castle, 72f; death of father, 89ff; death of mother, 92f;
embarrassed by role as national erotic symbol, 80, 95f, 166n.,
209, 247n., 400-406, 566n., 678; engaged to P. Castle, 193;
essential naïveté, 67-71, 80, 95f, 116a., 209, 274n., 400-406,
566a., 678; lives with Bokonon, 92-98, 196-197; poems about, 2n.,
26, 114, 119, 311, 316, 477n., 501, 507, 555n., 689, 718ff, 799ff,
800n., 841, 846ff, 908n., 971, 974; poems by, 89, 92, 193; returns
to Monzano, 199; returns to Bokonon, 197; runs away from Bokonon,
199; runs away from Moazano, 197; tries to make self ugly in order
to stop being erotic symbol to islanders, 89, 95f, 116n., 209,
247n., 400-406, 566n., 678; tutored by Bokonon, 63-80; writes
letter to United Nations, 200; xylophone virtuoso, 71."

     I showed this index entry to the Mintons, asking them if they
didn't think it was an enchanting biography in itself, a biography
of a reluctant goddess of love. I got an unexpectedly expert
answer, as one does in life sometimes. It appeared that Claire
Minton, in her time, had been a professional indexer. I had never
heard of such a profession before.
     She told me that she had put her husband through college
years before with her earnings as an indexer, that the earnings
had been good, and that few people could index well.
     She said that indexing was a thing that only the most
amateurish author undertook to do for his own book. I asked her
what she thought of Philip Castle's job.
     "Flattering to the author, insulting to the reader," she
said. "In a hyphenated word," she observed, with the shrewd
amiability of an expert, " '_self-indulgent_.' I'm always
embarrassed when I see an index an author has made of his own
work."
     "Embarrassed?"
     "It's a revealing thing, an author's index of his own work,"
she informed me. "It's a shameless exhibition--to the _trained_
eye."
     "She can read character from an index," said her husband.
     "Oh?" I said. "What can you tell about Philip Castle?"
     She smiled faintly. "Things I'd better not tell strangers."
     "Sorry."
     "He's obviously in love with this Mona Aamons Monzano," she
said.
     "That's true of every man in San Lorenzo I gather."
     "He has mixed feelings about his father," she said.
     "That's true of every man on earth." I egged her on gently.
     "He's insecure."
     "What mortal isn't?" I demanded. I didn't know it then, but
that was a very Bokononist thing to demand.
     "He'll never marry her."
     "Why not?"
     "I've said all I'm going to say," she said.
     "I'm gratified to meet an indexer who respects the privacy of
others."
     "Never index your own book," she stated.
     A _duprass_, Bokonon tells us, is a valuable instrument for
gaining and developing, in the privacy of an interminable love
affair, insights that are queer but true. The Mintons' cunning
exploration of indexes was surely a case in point. A _duprass_,
Bokonon tells us, is also a sweetly conceited establishment. The
Mintons' establishment was no exception.
     Sometime later, Ambassador Minton and I met in the aisle of
the airplane, away from his wife, and he showed that it was

important to him that I respect what his wife could find out from
indexes.
     "You know why Castle will never marry the girl, even though
he loves her, even though she loves him, even though they grew up
together?" he whispered.
     "No, sir, I don't."
     "Because he's a homosexual," whispered Minton. "She can tell
that from an index, too."
A Self-supporting Squirrel Cage 56
     When Lionel Boyd Johnson and Corporal Earl McCabe were washed
up naked onto the shore of San Lorenzo, I read, they were greeted
by persons far worse off than they. The people of San Lorenzo had
nothing but diseases, which they were at a loss to treat or even
name. By contrast, Johnson and McCabe had the glittering treasures
of literacy, ambition, curiosity, gall, irreverence, health,
humor, and considerable information about the outside world.
     From the "Calypsos" again:
          Oh, a very sorry people, yes,
          Did I find here.
          Oh, they had no music,
          And they had no beer.
          And, oh, everywhere
          Where they tried to perch
          Belonged to Castle Sugar, Incorporated,
          Or the Catholic church.
     This statement of the property situation in San Lorenzo in
1922 is entirely accurate, according to Philip Castle. Castle
Sugar was founded, as it happened, by Philip Castle's great-
grandfather. In 1922, it owned every piece of arable land on the
island.
     "Castle Sugar's San Lorenzo operations," wrote young Castle,
"never showed a profit. But, by paying laborers nothing for their

labor, the company managed to break even year after year, making
just enough money to pay the salaries of the workers' tormentors.
     "The form of government was anarchy, save in limited
situations wherein Castle Sugar wanted to own something or to get
something done. In such situations the form or government was
feudalism. The nobility was composed of Castle Sugar's plantation
bosses, who were heavily armed white men from the outside world.
The knighthood was composed of big natives who, for small gifts
and silly privileges, would kill or wound or torture on command.
The spiritual needs of the people caught in this demoniacal
squirrel cage were taken care of by a handful of butterball
priests.
     "The San Lorenzo Cathedral, dynamited in 1923, was generally
regarded as one of the man-made wonders of the New World," wrote
Castle.
The Queasy Dream 51
     That Corporal McCabe and Johnson were able to take command of
San Lorenzo was not a miracle in any sense. Many people had taken
over San Lorenzo--had invariably found it lightly held. The reason
was simple: God, in His Infinite Wisdom, had made the island
worthless.
     Hernando Cortes was the first man to have his sterile
conquest of San Lorenzo recorded on paper. Cortes and his men came
ashore for fresh water in 1519, named the island, claimed it for
Emperor Charles the Fifth, and never returned. Subsequent
expeditions came for gold and diamonds and rubies and spices,
found none, burned a few natives for entertainment and heresy, and
sailed on.
     "When France claimed San Lorenzo in 1682," wrote Castle, "no
Spaniards complained. When Denmark claimed San Lorenzo in 1699, no
Frenchmen complained. When the Dutch claimed San Lorenzo in 1704,
no Danes complained. When England claimed San Lorenzo in 1706, no
Dutchmen complained. When Spain reclaimed San Lorenzo in 1720, no
Englishmen complained. When, in 1786, African Negroes took command
of a British slave ship, ran it ashore on San Lorenzo, and

proclaimed San Lorenzo an independent nation, an empire with an
emperor, in fact, no Spaniards complained.
     "The emperor was Tum-bumwa, the only person who ever regarded
the island as being worth defending. A maniac, Tum-bumwa caused to
be erected the San Lorenzo Cathedral and the fantastic
fortifications on the north shore of the island, fortifications
within which the private residence of the so-called President of
the Republic now stands.
     "The fortifications have never been attacked, nor has any
sane man ever proposed any reason why they should be attacked.
They have never defended anything. Fourteen hundred persons are
said to have died while building them. Of these fourteen hundred,
about half are said to have been executed in public for
substandard zeal."
     Castle Sugar came into San Lorenzo in 1916, during the sugar
boom of the First World War. There was no government at all. The
company imagined that even the clay and gravel fields of San
Lorenzo could be tilled profitably, with the price of sugar so
high. No one complained.
     When McCabe and Johnson arrived in 1922 and announced that
they were placing themselves in charge, Castle Sugar withdrew
flaccidly, as though from a queasy dream.
Tyranny with a Difference 58
     "There was at least one quality of the new conquerors of San
Lorenzo that was really new," wrote young Castle. "McCabe and
Johnson dreamed of making San Lorenzo a Utopia.
     "To this end, McCabe overhauled the economy and the laws.
     "Johnson designed a new religion."
     Castle quoted the "Calypsos" again:
          I wanted all things
          To seem to make some sense,
          So we all could be happy, yes,
          Instead of tense.
          And I made up lies

          So that they all fit nice,
          And I made this sad world
          A par-a-dise.
     There was a tug at my coat sleeve as I read. I looked up.
Little Newt Hoenikker was standing in the aisle next to me. "I
thought maybe you'd like to go back to the bar," he said, "and
hoist a few."
     So we did hoist and topple a few, and Newt's tongue was
loosened enough to tell me some things about Zinka, his Russian
midget dancer friend. Their love nest, he told me, had been in his
father's cottage on Cape Cod.
     "I may not ever have a marriage, but at least I've had a
honeymoon."
     He told me of idyllic hours he and his Zinka had spent in
each other's arms, cradled in Felix Hoenikker's old white wicker
chair, the chair that faced the sea.
     And Zinka would dance for him. "Imagine a woman dancing just
for me."
     "I can see you have no regrets."
     "She broke my heart. I didn't like that much. But that was
the price. In this world, you get what you pay for."
     He proposed a gallant toast. "Sweethearts and wives," he
cried.
Fasten Your Seat Belts 59
     I was in the bar with Newt and H. Lowe Crosby and a couple of
strangers, when San Lorenzo was sighted. Crosby was talking about
pissants. "You know what I mean by a pissant?"
     "I know the term," I said, "but it obviously doesn't have the
ding-a-ling associations for me that it has for you."
     Crosby was in his cups and had the drunkard's illusion that
he could speak frankly, provided he spoke affectionately. He spoke
frankly and affectionately of Newt's size, something nobody else
in the bar had so far commented on.

     "I don't mean a little feller like this." Crosby hung a ham
hand on Newt's shoulder. "It isn't size that makes a man a
pissant. It's the way he thinks. I've seen men four times as big
as this little feller here, and they were pissants. And I've seen
little fellers--well, not this little actually, but pretty damn
little, by God--and I'd call them real men."
     "Thanks," said Newt pleasantly, not even glancing at the
monstrous hand on his shoulder. Never had I seen a human being
better adjusted to such a humiliating physical handicap. I
shuddered with admiration.
     "You were talking about pissants," I said to Crosby, hoping
to get the weight of his hand off Newt.
     "Damn right I was." Crosby straightened up.
     "You haven't told us what a pissant is yet," I said.
     "A pissant is somebody who thinks he's so damn smart, he
never can keep his mouth shut. No matter what anybody says, he's
got to argue with it. You say you like something, and, by God,
he'll tell you why you're wrong to like it. A pissant does his
best to make you feel like a boob all the time. No matter what you
say, he knows better."
     "Not a very attractive characteristic," I suggested.
     "My daughter wanted to marry a pissant once," said Crosby
darkly.
"Did she?"
     "I squashed him like a bug." Crosby hammered on the bar,
remembering things the pissant had said and done. "Jesus!" he
said, "we've all been to college!" His gaze lit on Newt again.
"You go to college?"
     "Cornell," said Newt.
     "Cornell!" cried Crosby gladly. "My God, I went to Cornell."
     "So did he." Newt nodded at me.
     "Three Cornellians--all in the same plane!" said Crosby, and
we had another _granfalloon_ festival on our hands.
     When it subsided some, Crosby asked Newt what he did.
     "I paint."
     "Houses?"
     "Pictures."
     "I'll be damned," said Crosby.
     "Return to your seats and fasten your seat belts, please,"
warned the airline hostess. "We're over Monzano Airport, Bolivar,
San Lorenzo."
     "Christ! Now wait just a Goddamn minute here," said Crosby,
looking down at Newt. "All of a sudden I realize you've got a name
I've heard before."
     "My father was the father of the atom bomb." Newt didn't say
Felix Hoenikker was _one_ of the fathers. He said Felix was _the_
father.

     "Is that so?" asked Crosby.
     "That's so."
     "I was thinking about something else," said Crosby. He had to
think hard. "Something about a dancer."
     "I think we'd better get back to our seats," said Newt,
tightening some.
     "Something about a Russian dancer." Crosby was sufficiently
addled by booze to see no harm in thinking out loud. "I remember
an editorial about how maybe the dancer was a spy."
     "Please, gentlemen," said the stewardess, "you really must
get back to your seats and fasten your belts."
     Newt looked up at H. Lowe Crosby innocently. "You sure the
name was Hoenikker?" And, in order to eliminate any chance of
mistaken identity, he spelled the name for Crosby.
     "I could be wrong," said H. Lowe Crosby.
An Underprivileged Nation 60
     The island, seen from the air, was an amazingly regular
rectangle. Cruel and useless stone needles were thrust up from the
sea. They sketched a circle around it.
     At the south end of the island was the port city of Bolivar.
     It was the only city.
     It was the capital.
     It was built on a marshy table. The runways of Monzano
Airport were on its water front.
     Mountains arose abruptly to the north of Bolivar, crowding
the remainder of the island with their brutal humps. They were
called the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, but they looked like pigs
at a trough to me.
     Bolivar had had many names: Caz-ma-caz-ma, Santa Maria, Saint
Louis, Saint George, and Port Glory among them. It was given its
present name by Johnson and McCabe in 1922, was named in honor of
Simon Bolivar, the great Latin-American idealist and hero.
     When Johnson and McCabe came upon the city, it was built of
twigs, tin, crates, and mud--rested on the catacombs of a trillion
happy scavengers, catacombs in a sour mash of slop, feculence, and
slime.

     That was pretty much the way I found it, too, except for the
new architectural false face along the water front.
     Johnson and McCabe had failed to raise the people from misery
and muck.
     "Papa" Monzano had failed, too.
     Everybody was bound to fail, for San Lorenzo was as
unproductive as an equal area in the Sahara or the Polar Icecap.
     At the same time, it had as dense a population as could be
found anywhere, India and China not excluded. There were four
hundred and fifty inhabitants for each uninhabitable square mile.
     "During the idealistic phase of McCabe's and Johnson's
reorganization of San Lorenzo, it was announced that the country's
total income would be divided among all adult persons in equal
shares," wrote Philip Castle. "The first and only time this was
tried, each share came to between six and seven dollars."
What a Corporal Was Worth 61
     In the customs shed at Monzano Airport, we were all required
to submit to a luggage inspection, and to convert what money we
intended to spend in San Lorenzo into the local currency, into
_Corporals_, which "Papa" Monzano insisted were worth fifty
American cents.
     The shed was neat and new, but plenty of signs had already
been slapped on the walls, higgledy-piggledy.
     ANYBODY CAUGHT PRACTICING BOKONONISM IN SAN LORENZO, said
one, WILL DIE ON THE HOOK!
     Another poster featured a picture of Bokonon, a scrawny old
colored man who was smoking a cigar. He looked clever and kind and
amused.
     Under the picture were the words: WANTED DEAD OR ALIVE,
10,000 CORPORALS REWARD!
     I took a closer look at that poster and found reproduced at
the bottom of it some sort of police identification form Bokonon
had had to fill out way back in 1929. It was reproduced,
apparently, to show Bokonon hunters what his fingerprints and
handwriting were like.

     But what interested me were some of the words Bokonon had
chosen to put into the blanks in 1929. Wherever possible, he had
taken the cosmic view, had taken into consideration, for instance,
such things as the shortness of life and the longness of eternity.
     He reported his avocation as: "Being alive."
     He reported his principal occupation as: "Being dead."
     THIS IS A CHRISTIAN NATION! ALL FOOT PLAY WILL BE PUNISHED BY
THE HOOK, said another sign. The sign was meaningless to me, since
I had not yet learned that Bokononists mingled their souls by
pressing the bottoms of their feet together.
     And the greatest mystery of all, since I had not read all of
Philip Castle's book, was how Bokonon, bosom friend of Corporal
McCabe, had come to be an outlaw.
Why Hazel Wasn't Scared 62
     There were seven of us who got off at San Lorenzo: Newt and
Angela, Ambassador Minton and his wife, H. Lowe Crosby and his
wife, and I. When we had cleared customs, we were herded outdoors
and onto a reviewing stand.
     There, we faced a very quiet crowd.
     Five thousand or more San Lorenzans stared at us. The
islanders were oatmeal colored. The people were thin. There wasn't
a fat person to be seen. Every person had teeth missing. Many legs
were bowed or swollen.
     Not one pair of eyes was clear.
     The women's breasts were bare and paltry. The men wore loose
loincloths that did little to conceal penes like pendulums on
grandfather clocks.
     There were many dogs, but not one barked. There were many
infants, but not one cried. Here and there someone coughed--and
that was all.
     A military band stood at attention before the crowd. It did
not play.
     There was a color guard before the band. It carried two
banners, the Stars and Stripes and the flag of San Lorenzo. The
flag of San Lorenzo consisted of a Marine Corporal's chevrons on a
royal blue field. The banners hung lank in the windless day.

     I imagined that somewhere far away I heard the blamming of a
sledge on a brazen drum. There was no such sound. My soul was
simply resonating the beat of the brassy, clanging heat of the San
Lorenzan clime.
     "I'm sure glad it's a Christian country," Hazel Crosby
whispered to her husband, "or I'd be a little scared."
     Behind us was a xylophone.
     There was a glittering sign on the xylophone. The sign was
made of garnets and rhinestones.
     The sign said, MONA.
Reverent and Free 63
     To the left side of our reviewing stand were six propeller-
driven fighter planes in a row, military assistance from the
United States to San Lorenzo. On the fuselage of each plane was
painted, with childish bloodlust, a boa constrictor which was
crushing a devil to death. Blood came from the devil's ears, nose,
and mouth. A pitchfork was slipping from satanic red fingers.
     Before each plane stood an oatmeal-colored pilot; silent,
too.
     Then, above that tumid silence, there came a nagging song
like the song of a gnat. It was a siren approaching. The siren was
on "Papa's" glossy black Cadillac limousine.
     The limousine came to a stop before us, tires smoking.
     Out climbed "Papa" Monzano, his adopted daughter, Mona Aamons
Monzano, and Franklin Hoenikker.
     At a limp, imperious signal from "Papa," the crowd sang the
San Lorenzan National Anthem. Its melody was "Home on the Range."
The words had been written in 1922 by Lionel Boyd Johnson, by
Bokonon. The words were these:
          Oh, ours is a land
          Where the living is grand,
          And the men are as fearless as sharks;
          The women are pure,
          And we always are sure

That our children will all toe their marks.
San, San Lo-ren-zo!
What a rich, lucky island are we!
Our enemies quail,
For they know they will fail
Against people so reverent and free.
Peace and Plenty 64
     And then the crowd was deathly still again.
     "Papa" and Mona and Frank joined us on the reviewing stand.
One snare drum played as they did so. The drumming stopped when
"Papa" pointed a finger at the drummer.
     He wore a shoulder holster on the outside of his blouse. The
weapon in it was a chromium-plated .45. He was an old, old man, as
so many members of my _karass_ were. He was in poor shape. His
steps were small and bounceless. He was still a fat man, but his
lard was melting fast, for his simple uniform was loose. The balls
of his hoptoad eyes were yellow. His hands trembled.
     His personal bodyguard was Major General Franklin Hoenikker,
whose uniform was white. Frank--thin-wristed, narrow-shouldered--
looked like a child kept up long after his customary bedtime. On
his breast was a medal.
     I observed the two, "Papa" and Frank, with some difficulty--
not because my view was blocked, but because I could not take my
eyes off Mona. I was thrilled, heartbroken, hilarious, insane.
Every greedy, unreasonable dream I'd ever had about what a woman
should be came true in Mona. There, God love her warm and creamy
soul, was peace and plenty forever.
     That girl--and she was only eighteen--was rapturously serene.
She seemed to understand all, and to be all there was to
understand. In _The Books of Bokonon_ she is mentioned by name.
One thing Bokonon says of her is this: "Mona has the simplicity of
the all."
     Her dress was white and Greek.
     She wore flat sandals on her small brown feet.
     Her pale gold hair was lank and long.
     Her hips were a lyre.

     Oh God.
     Peace and plenty forever.
     She was the one beautiful girl in San Lorenzo. She was the
national treasure. "Papa" had adopted her, according to Philip
Castle, in order to mingle divinity with the harshness of his
rule.
     The xylophone was rolled to the front of the stand. And Mona
played it. She played "When Day Is Done." It was all tremolo--
swelling, fading, swelling again. The crowd was intoxicated by
beauty. And then it was time for "Papa" to greet us.
A Good Time to Come to San Lorenzo 65
     "Papa" was a self-educated man, who had been majordomo to
Corporal McCabe. He had never been off the island. He spoke
American English passably well.
     Everything that any one of us said on the reviewing stand was
bellowed out at the crowd through doomsday horns.
     Whatever went out through those horns gabbled down a wide,
short boulevard at the back of the crowd, ricocheted off the three
glass-faced new buildings at the end of the boulevard, and came
cackling back.
     "Welcome," said "Papa." "You are coming to the best friend
America ever had. America is misunderstood many places, but not
here, Mr. Ambassador." He bowed to H. Lowe Crosby, the bicycle
manufacturer, mistaking him for the new Ambassador.
     "I know you've got a good country here, Mr. President," said
Crosby. "Everything I ever heard about it sounds great to me.
There's just one thing . . ."
"Oh?"
     "I'm not the Ambassador," said' Crosby. "I wish I was, but
I'm just a plain, ordinary businessman." It hurt him to say who
the real Ambassador was. "This man over here is the big cheese."
     "Ah!" "Papa" smiled at his mistake. The smile went away
suddenly. Some pain inside of him made him wince, then made him
hunch over, close his eyes--made him concentrate on surviving the
pain.

     Frank Hoenikker went to his support, feebly, incompetently.
"Are you all right?"
     "Excuse me," "Papa" whispered at last, straightening up some.
There were tears in his eyes. He brushed them away, straightening
up all the way. "I beg your pardon."
     He seemed to be in doubt for a moment as to where he was, as
to what was expected of him. And then he remembered. He shook
Horlick Minton's hand. "Here, you are among friends."
     "I'm sure of it," said Minton gently.
     "Christian," said "Papa."
     "Good."
     "Anti-Communists," said "Papa."
     "Good."
     "No Communists here," said "Papa." "They fear the hook too
much."
     "I should think they would," said Minton.
     "You have picked a very good time to come to us," said
"Papa." "Tomorrow will be one of the happiest days in the history
of our country. Tomorrow is our greatest national holiday, The Day
of the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy. It will also be the day of
the engagement of Major General Hoenikker to Mona Aamons Monzano,
to the most precious person in my life and in the life of San
Lorenzo."
     "I wish you much happiness, Miss Monzano," said Minton
warmly. "And I congratulate _you_, General Hoenikker."
     The two young people nodded their thanks.
     Minton now spoke of the so-called Hundred Martyrs to
Democracy, and he told a whooping lie. "There is not an American
schoolchild who does not know the story of San Lorenzo's noble
sacrifice in World War Two. The hundred brave San Lorenzans, whose
day tomorrow is, gave as much as freedom-loving men can. The
President of the United States has asked me to be his personal
representative at ceremonies tomorrow, to cast a wreath, the gift
of the American people to the people of San Lorenzo, on the sea."
     "The people of San Lorenzo thank you and your President and
the generous people of the United States of America for their
thoughtfulness," said "Papa." "We would be honored if you would
cast the wreath into the sea during the engagement party
tomorrow."
     "The honor is mine."
     "Papa" commanded us all to honor him with our presence at the
wreath ceremony and engagement party next day. We were to appear
at his palace at noon.
     "What children these two will have!" "Papa" said, inviting us
to stare at Frank and Mona. "What blood! What beauty!"
     The pain hit him again.
     He again closed his eyes to huddle himself around that pain.

     He waited for it to pass, but it did not pass.
     Still in agony, he turned away from us, faced the crowd and
the microphone. He tried to gesture at the crowd, failed. He tried
to say something to the crowd, failed.
     And then the words came out. "Go home," he cried strangling.
"Go home!"
     The crowd scattered like leaves.
     "Papa" faced us again, still grotesque in pain. . . .
     And then he collapsed.
The Strongest Thing There Is 66
     He wasn't dead.
     But he certainly looked dead; except that now and then, in
the midst of all that seeming death, he would give a shivering
twitch.
     Frank protested loudly that "Papa" wasn't dead, that he
_couldn't_ be dead. He was frantic. "'Papa'! You can't die! You
can't!"
     Frank loosened "Papa's" collar and blouse, rubbed his wrists.
"Give him air! Give 'Papa' air!"
     The fighter-plane pilots came running over to help us. One
had sense enough to go for the airport ambulance.
     The band and the color guard, which had received no orders,
remained at quivering attention.
     I looked for Mona, found that she was still serene and had
withdrawn to the rail of the reviewing stand. Death, if there was
going to be death, did not alarm her.
     Standing next to her was a pilot. He was not looking at her,
but he had a perspiring radiance that I attributed to his being so
near to her.
     "Papa" now regained something like consciousness. With a hand
that flapped like a captured bird, he pointed at Frank. "You . .
." he said.
     We all fell silent, in order to hear his words.
     His lips moved, but we could hear nothing but bubbling
sounds.

     Somebody had what looked like a wonderful idea then--what
looks like a hideous idea in retrospect. Someone--a pilot, I
think--took the microphone from its mount and held it by "Papa's"
bubbling lips in order to amplify his words.
     So death rattles and all sorts of spastic yodels bounced off
the new buildings.
     And then came words.
     "You," he said to Frank hoarsely, "you--Franklin Hoenikker--
you will be the next President of San Lorenzo. Science--you have
science. Science is the strongest thing there is.
     "Science," said "Papa." "Ice." He rolled his yellow eyes, and
he passed out again.
     I looked at Mona.
     Her expression was unchanged.
     The pilot next to her, however, had his features composed in
the catatonic, orgiastic rigidity of one receiving the
Congressional Medal of Honor.
     I looked down and I saw what I was not meant to see.
     Mona had slipped off her sandal. Her small brown foot was
bare.
     And with that foot, she was kneading and kneading and
kneading--obscenely kneading--the instep of the flyer's boot.
Hy-u-o-ook-kuh! 67
     "Papa" didn't die--not then.
     He was rolled away in the airport's big red meat wagon. The
Mintons were taken to their embassy by an American limousine.
     Newt and Angela were taken to Frank's house in a San Lorenzan
limousine.
     The Crosbys and I were taken to the Casa Mona hotel in San
Lorenzo's one taxi, a hearselike 1939 Chrysler limousine with jump
seats. The name on the side of the cab was Castle Transportation
Inc. The cab was owned by Philip Castle, the owner of the Casa
Mona, the son of the completely unselfish man I had come to
interview.
     The Crosbys and I were both upset. Our consternation was
expressed in questions we had to have answered at once. The

Crosbys wanted to know who Bokonon was. They were scandalized by
the idea that anyone should be opposed to "Papa" Monzano.
     Irrelevantly, I found that I had to know at once who the
Hundred Martyrs to Democracy had been.
     The Crosbys got their answer first. They could not understand
the San Lorenzan dialect, so I had to translate for them. Crosby's
basic question to our driver was: "Who the hell is this pissant
Bokonon, anyway?"
     "Very bad man," said the driver. What he actually said was,
"_Vorry ball moan_."
     "A Communist?" asked Crosby, when he heard my translation.
     "Oh, sure."
     "Has he got any following?"
     "Sir?"
     "Does anybody think he's any good?"
     "Oh, no, sir," said the driver piously. "Nobody that crazy."
     "Why hasn't he been caught?" demanded Crosby.
     "Hard man to find," said the driver. "Very smart."
     "Well, people must be hiding him and giving him food or he'd
be caught by now."
     "Nobody hide him; nobody feed him. Everybody too smart to do
that."
     "You sure?"
     "Oh, sure," said the driver. "Anybody feed that crazy old
man, anybody give him place to sleep, they get the hook. Nobody
want the hook."
     He pronounced that last word: "_hy-u-o-_ook_-kuh_."
Hoon-yera Mora-toorz 68
     I asked the driver who the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy had
been. The boulevard we were going down, I saw, was called the
Boulevard of the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy.
     The driver told me that San Lorenzo had declared war on
Germany and Japan an hour after Pearl Harbor was attacked.
     San Lorenzo conscripted a hundred men to fight on the side of
democracy. These hundred men were put on a ship bound for the
United States, where they were to be armed and trained.

     The ship was sunk by a German submarine right outside of
Bolivar harbor.
     "_Dose, sore_," he said, "_yeeara lo hoon-yera mora-toorz tut
zamoo-cratz-ya_."
     "Those, sir," he'd said in dialect, "are the Hundred Martyrs
to Democracy."
A Big Mosaic 69
     The Crosbys and I had the curious experience of being the
very first guests of a new hotel. We were the first to sign the
register of the Casa Mona.
     The Crosbys got to the desk ahead of me, but H. Lowe Crosby
was so startled by a wholly blank register that he couldn't bring
himself to sign. He had to think about it a while.
     "You sign," he said to me. And then, defying me to think he
was superstitious, he declared his wish to photograph a man who
was making a huge mosaic on the fresh plaster of the lobby wall.
     The mosaic was a portrait of Mona Aamons Monzano. It was
twenty feet high. The man who was working on it was young and
muscular. He sat at the top of a stepladder. He wore nothing but a
pair of white duck trousers.
     He was a white man.
     The mosaicist was making the fine hairs on the nape of Mona's
swan neck out of chips of gold.
     Crosby went over to photograph him; came back to report that
the man was the biggest pissant he had ever met. Crosby was the
color of tomato juice when he reported this. "You can't say a damn
thing to him that he won't turn inside out."
     So I went over to the mosaicist, watched him for a while, and
then I told him, "I envy you."
     "I always knew," he sighed, "that, if I waited long enough,
somebody would come and envy me. I kept telling myself to be
patient, that, sooner or later, somebody envious would come
along."
     "Are you an American?"

     "That happiness is mine." He went right on working; he was
incurious as to what I looked like. "Do you want to take my
photograph, too?"
     "Do you mind?"
     "I think; therefore I am, therefore I am photographable."
     "I'm afraid I don't have my camera with me."
     "Well, for Christ's sake, get it! You're not one of those
people who trusts his memory, are you?"
     "I don't think I'll forget that face you're working on very
soon."
     "You'll forget it when you're dead, and so will I. When I'm
dead, I'm going to forget everything--and I advise you to do the
same."
     "Has she been posing for this or are you working from
photographs or what?"
     "I'm working from or what."
     "What?"
     "I'm working from or what." He tapped his temple. "It's all
in this enviable head of mine."
     "You know her?"
     "That happiness is mine."
     "Frank Hoenikker's a lucky man."
     "Frank Hoenikker is a piece of shit."
     "You're certainly candid."
     "I'm also rich."
     "Glad to hear it."
     "If you want an expert opinion, money doesn't necessarily
make people happy."
     "Thanks for the information. You've just saved me a lot of
trouble. I was just about to make some money."
     "How?"
     "Writing."
     "I wrote a book once."
     "What was it called?"
     "_San Lorenzo_," he said, "the Land, the History, the
People_."
Tutored by Bokonon 70

     "You, I take it," I said to the mosaicist, "are Philip
Castle, son of Julian Castle."
     "That happiness is mine."
     "I'm here to see your father."
     "Are you an aspirin salesman?"
     "No."
     "Too bad. Father's low on aspirin. How about miracle drugs?
Father enjoys pulling off a miracle now and then."
     "I'm not a drug salesman. I'm a writer."
     "What makes you think a writer isn't a drug salesman?"
     "I'll accept that. Guilty as charged."
     "Father needs some kind of book to read to people who are
dying or in terrible pain. I don't suppose you've written anything
like that."
"Not yet."
     "I think there'd be money in it. There's another valuable tip
for you."
     "I suppose I could overhaul the 'Twenty-third Psalm,' switch
it around a little so nobody would realize it wasn't original with
me."
     "Bokonon tried to overhaul it," he told me. "Bokonon found
out he couldn't change a word."
     "You know him, too?"
     "That happiness is mine. He was my tutor when I was a little
boy." He gestured sentimentally at the mosaic. "He was Mona's
tutor, too."
     "Was he a good teacher?"
     "Mona and I can both read and write and do simple sums," said
Castle, "if that's what you mean."
The Happiness of Being an American 71
     H. Lowe Crosby came over to have another go at Castle, the
pissant.
     "What do you call yourself," sneered Crosby, "a beatnik or
what?"
     "I call myself a Bokononist."

     "That's against the law in this country, isn't it?"
     "I happen to have the happiness of being an American. I've
been able to say I'm a Bokononist any time I damn please, and, so
far, nobody's bothered me at all."
     "I believe in obeying the laws of whatever country I happen
to be in."
     "You are not telling me the news."
     Crosby was livid. "Screw you, Jack!"
     "Screw you, Jasper," said Castle mildly, "and screw Mother's
Day and Christmas, too."
     Crosby marched across the lobby to the desk clerk and he
said, "I want to report that man over there, that pissant, that
so-called artist. You've got a nice little country here that's
trying to attract the tourist trade and new investment in
industry. The way that man talked to me, I don't ever want to see
San Lorenzo again--and any friend who asks me about San Lorenzo,
I'll tell him to keep the hell away. You may be getting a nice
picture on the wall over there, but, by God, the pissant who's
making it is the most insulting, discouraging son of a bitch I
ever met in my life."
     The clerk looked sick. "Sir . . ."
     "I'm listening," said Crosby, full of fire.
     "Sir--he owns the hotel."
The Pissant Hilton 72
     H. Lowe Crosby and his wife checked out of the Casa Mona.
Crosby called it "The Pissant Hilton," and he demanded quarters at
the American embassy.
     So I was the only guest in a one-hundred-room hotel.
     My room was a pleasant one. It faced, as did all the rooms,
the Boulevard of the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy, Monzano
Airport, and Bolivar harbor beyond. The Casa Mona was built like a
bookcase, with solid sides and back and with a front of blue-green
glass. The squalor and misery of the city, being to the sides and
back of the Casa Mona, were impossible to see.
     My room was air-conditioned. It was almost chilly. And,
coming from the blamming heat into that chilliness, I sneezed.

     There were fresh flowers on my bedside table, but my bed had
not yet been made. There wasn't even a pillow on the bed. There
was simply a bare, brand-new Beautyrest mattress. And there
weren't any coat hangers in the closet; and there wasn't any
toilet paper in the bathroom.
     So I went out in the corridor to see if there was a
chambermaid who would equip me a little more completely. There
wasn't anybody out there, but there was a door open at the far end
and very faint sounds of life.
     I went to this door and found a large suite paved with drop-
cloths. It was being painted, but the two painters weren't
painting when I appeared. They were sitting on a shelf that ran
the width of the window wall.
     They had their shoes off. They had their eyes closed. They
were facing each other.
     They were pressing the soles of their bare feet together.
     Each grasped his own ankles, giving himself the rigidity of a
triangle.
     I cleared my throat.
     The two rolled off the shelf and fell to the spattered
dropcloth. They landed on their hands and knees, and they stayed
in that position--their behinds in the air, their noses close to
the ground.
     They were expecting to be killed.
     "Excuse me," I said, amazed.
     "Don't tell," begged one querulously. "Please--please don't
tell."
     "Tell what?"
     "What you saw!"
     "I didn't see anything."
     "If you tell," he said, and he put his cheek to the floor and
looked up at me beseechingly, "if you tell, we'll die on the _hy-
u-o-ook-kuh!_"
     "Look, friends," I said, "either I came in too early or too
late, but, I tell you again, I didn't see anything worth
mentioning to anybody. Please--get up."
     They got up, their eyes still on me. They trembled and
cowered. I convinced them at last that I would never tell what I
had seen.
     What I had seen, of course, was the Bokononist ritual of
_boko-maru_, or the mingling of awarenesses.
     We Bokononists believe that it is impossible to be sole-to-
sole with another person without loving the person, provided the
feet of both persons are clean and nicely tended.
     The basis for the foot ceremony is this "Calypso":

We will touch our feet, yes,
Yes, for all we're worth,
And we will love each other, yes,
Yes, like we love our Mother Earth.
Black Death 73
     When I got back to my room I found that Philip Castle--
mosaicist, historian, self-indexer, pissant, and hotel-keeper--was
installing a roll of toilet paper in my bathroom.
     "Thank you very much," I said.
     "You're entirely welcome."
     "This is what I'd call a hotel with a real heart. How many
hotel owners would take such a direct interest in the comfort of a
guest?"
     "How many hotel owners have just one guest?"
     "You used to have three."
     "Those were the days."
     "You know, I may be speaking out of turn, but I find it hard
to understand how a person of your interests and talents would be
attracted to the hotel business."
     He frowned perplexedly. "I don't seem to be as good with
guests as I might, do I?"
     "I knew some people in the Hotel School at Cornell, and I
can't help feeling they would have treated the Crosbys somewhat
differently."
     He nodded uncomfortably. "I know. I know." He flapped his
arms. "Damned if I know why I built this hotel --something to do
with my life, I guess. A way to be busy, a way not to be
lonesome." He shook his head. "It was be a hermit or open a hotel-
-with nothing in between."
     "Weren't you raised at your father's hospital?"
     "That's right. Mona and I both grew up there."
     "Well, aren't you at all tempted to do with your life what
your father's done with his?"
     Young Castle smiled wanly, avoiding a direct answer. "He's a
funny person, Father is," he said. "I think you'll like him."

     "I expect to. There aren't many people who've been as
unselfish as he has."
     "One time," said Castle, "when I was about fifteen, there was
a mutiny near here on a Greek ship bound from Hong Kong to Havana
with a load of wicker furniture. The mutineers got control of the
ship, didn't know how to run her, and smashed her up on the rocks
near 'Papa' Monzano's castle. Everybody drowned but the rats. The
rats and the wicker furniture came ashore."
     That seemed to be the end of the story, but I couldn't be
sure. "So?"
     "So some people got free furniture, and some people got
bubonic plague. At Father's hospital, we had fourteen-hundred
deaths inside of ten days. Have you ever seen anyone die of
bubonic plague?"
     "That unhappiness has not been mine."
     "The lymph glands in the groin and the armpits swell to the
size of grapefruit."
     "I can well believe it."
     "After death, the body turns black--coals to Newcastle in the
case of San Lorenzo. When the plague was having everything its own
way, the House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle looked like
Auschwitz or Buchenwald. We had stacks of dead so deep and wide
that a bulldozer actually stalled trying to shove them toward a
common grave. Father worked without sleep for days, worked not
only without sleep but without saving many lives, either."
     Castle's grisly tale was interrupted by the ringing of my
telephone.
     "My God," said Castle, "I didn't even know the telephones
were connected yet."
     I picked up the phone. "Hello?"
     It was Major General Franklin Hoenikker who had called me up.
He sounded out of breath and scared stiff. "Listen! You've got to
come out to my house right away. We've got to have a talk! It
could be a very important thing in your life!"
     "Could you give me some idea?"
     "Not on the phone, not on the phone. You come to my house.
You come right away! Please!"
"All right."
     "I'm not kidding you. This is a really important thing in
your life. This is the most important thing ever." He hung up.
     "What was that all about?" asked Castle.
     "I haven't got the slightest idea. Frank Hoenikker wants to
see me right away."
     "Take your time. Relax. He's a moron."
     "He said it was important."
     "How does he know what's important? I could carve a better
man out of a banana."

     "Well, finish your story anyway."
     "Where was I?"
     "The bubonic plague. The bulldozer was stalled by corpses."
     "Oh, yes. Anyway, one sleepless night I stayed up with Father
while he worked. It was all we could do to find a live patient to
treat. In bed after bed after bed we found dead people.
     "And Father started giggling," Castle continued.
     "He couldn't stop. He walked out into the night with his
flashlight. He was still giggling. He was making the flashlight
beam dance over all the dead people stacked outside. He put his
hand on my head, and do you know what that marvelous man said to
me?" asked Castle.
"Nope."
     "'Son,' my father said to me, 'someday this will all be
yours.'"
Cat's Cradle 74
     I went to Frank's house in San Lorenzo's one taxicab.
     We passed through scenes of hideous want. We climbed the
slope of Mount McCabe. The air grew cooler. There was mist.
     Frank's house had once been the home of Nestor Aamons, father
of Mona, architect of the House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle.
     Aamons had designed it.
     It straddled a waterfall; had a terrace cantilevered out into
the mist rising from the fall. It was a cunning lattice of very
light steel posts and beams. The interstices of the lattice were
variously open, chinked with native stone, glazed, or curtained by
sheets of canvas.
     The effect of the house was not so much to enclose as to
announce that a man had been whimsically busy there.
     A servant greeted me politely and told me that Frank wasn't
home yet. Frank was expected at any moment. Frank had left orders
to the effect that I was to be made happy and comfortable, and
that I was to stay for supper and the night. The servant, who
introduced himself as Stanley, was the first plump San Lorenzan I
had seen.

     Stanley led me to my room; led me around the heart of the
house, down a staircase of living stone, a staircase sheltered or
exposed by steel-framed rectangles at random. My bed was a foam-
rubber slab on a stone shelf, a shelf of living stone. The walls
of my chamber were canvas. Stanley demonstrated how I might roll
them up or down, as I pleased.
     I asked Stanley if anybody else was home, and he told me that
only Newt was. Newt, he said, was out on the cantilevered terrace,
painting a picture. Angela, he said, had gone sightseeing to the
House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle.
     I went out onto the giddy terrace that straddled the
waterfall and found little Newt asleep in a yellow butterfly
chair.
     The painting on which Newt had been working was set on an
easel next to the aluminum railing. The painting was framed in a
misty view of sky, sea, and valley.
     Newt's painting was small and black and warty.
     It consisted of scratches made in a black, gummy impasto. The
scratches formed a sort of spider's web, and I wondered if they
might not be the sticky nets of human futility hung up on a
moonless night to dry.
     I did not wake up the midget who had made this dreadful
thing. I smoked, listening to imagined voices in the water sounds.
     What awakened little Newt was an explosion far away below. It
caromed up the valley and went to God. It was a cannon on the
water front of Bolivar, Frank's major-domo told me. It was fired
every day at five.
     Little Newt stirred.
     While still half-snoozing, he put his black, painty hands to
his mouth and chin, leaving black smears there. He rubbed his eyes
and made black smears around them, too.
     "Hello," he said to me, sleepily.
     "Hello," I said. "I like your painting."
     "You see what it is?"
     "I suppose it means something different to everyone who sees
it."
     "It's a cat's cradle."
     "Aha," I said. "Very good. The scratches are string. Right?"
     "One of the oldest games there is, cat's cradle. Even the
Eskimos know it."
     "You don't say."
     "For maybe a hundred thousand years or more, grownups have
been waving tangles of string in their children's faces."
"Um."
     Newt remained curled in the chair. He held out his painty
hands as though a cat's cradle were strung between them. "No
wonder kids grow up crazy. A cat's cradle is nothing but a bunch

of X's between somebody's hands, and little kids look and look and
look at all those X's . . ."
     "And?"
     "_No damn cat, and no damn cradle_."
Give My Regards to Albert Schweitzer 75
     And then Angela Hoenikker Conners, Newt's beanpole sister,
came in with Julian Castle, father of Philip, and founder of the
House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle. Castle wore a baggy white
linen suit and a string tie. He had a scraggly mustache. He was
bald. He was scrawny. He was a saint, I think.
     He introduced himself to Newt and to me on the cantilevered
terrace. He forestalled all references to his possible saintliness
by talking out of the corner of his mouth like a movie gangster.
     "I understand you are a follower of Albert Schweitzer," I
said to him.
     "At a distance . . ." He gave a criminal sneer. "I've never
met the gentleman."
     "He must surely know of your work, just as you know of his."
     "Maybe and maybe not. You ever see him?"
     "No."
     "You ever expect to see him?"
     "Someday maybe I will."
     "Well," said Julian Castle, "in case you run across Dr.
Schweitzer in your travels, you might tell him that he is _not_ my
hero." He lit a big cigar.
     When the cigar was going good and hot he pointed its red end
at me. "You can tell him he isn't my hero," he said, "but you can
also tell him that, thanks to him, Jesus Christ _is_."
     "I think he'll be glad to hear it."
     "I don't give a damn if he is or not. This is something
between Jesus and me."

Julian Castle Agrees with Newt 76
that Everything Is Meaningless
     Julian Castle and Angela went to Newt's painting. Castle made
a pinhole of a curled index finger, squinted at the painting
through it.
     "What do you think of it?" I asked him.
     "It's _black_. What is it--hell?"
     "It means whatever it means," said Newt.
     "Then it's hell," snarled Castle.
     "I was told a moment ago that it was a cat's cradle," I said.
     "Inside information always helps," said Castle.
     "I don't think it's very nice," Angela complained. "I think
it's ugly, but I don't know anything about modern art. Sometimes I
wish Newt would take some lessons, so he could know for sure if he
was doing something or not."
     "Self-taught, are you?" Julian Castle asked Newt.
     "Isn't everybody?" Newt inquired.
     "Very good answer." Castle was respectful.
     I undertook to explain the deeper significance of the cat's
cradle, since Newt seemed disinclined to go through that song and
dance again.
     And Castle nodded sagely. "So this is a picture of the
meaninglessness of it all! I couldn't agree more."
     "Do you _really_ agree?" I asked. "A minute ago you said
something about Jesus."
     "Who?" said, Castle.
     "Jesus Christ?"
     "Oh," said Castle. "_Him_." He shrugged. "People have to talk
about something just to keep their voice boxes in working order,
so they'll have good voice boxes in case there's ever anything
really meaningful to say."
     "I see." I knew I wasn't going to have an easy time writing a
popular article about him. I was going to have to concentrate on
his saintly deeds and ignore entirely the satanic things he
thought and said.
     "You may quote me:" he said. "Man is vile, and man makes
nothing worth making, knows nothing worth knowing."
     He leaned down and he shook little Newt's painty hand.
"Right?"
     Newt nodded, seeming to suspect momentarily that the case had
been a little overstated. "Right."

     And then the saint marched to Newt's painting and took it
from its easel. He beamed at us all. "Garbage--like everything
else."
     And he threw the painting off the cantilevered terrace. It
sailed out on an updraft, stalled, boomeranged back, sliced into
the waterfall.
     There was nothing little Newt could say.
     Angela spoke first. "You've got paint all over your face,
honey. Go wash it off."
Aspirin and Boko-maru 77
     "Tell me, Doctor," I said to Julian Castle, "how is 'Papa'
Monzano?"
     "How would I know?"
     "I thought you'd probably been treating him."
     "We don't speak . . ." Castle smiled. "He doesn't speak to
me, that is. The last thing he said to me, which was about three
years ago, was that the only thing that kept me off the hook was
my American citizenship."
     "What have you done to offend him? You come down here and
with your own money found a free hospital for his people . . ."
     "'Papa' doesn't like the way we treat the whole patient,"
said Castle, "particularly the whole patient when he's dying. At
the House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle, we administer the last
rites of the Bokononist Church to those who want them."
     "What are the rites like?"
     "Very simple. They start with a responsive reading. You want
to respond?"
     "I'm not that close to death just now, if you don't mind."
     He gave me a grisly wink. "You're wise to be cautious. People
taking the last rites have a way of dying on cue. I think we could
keep you from going all the way, though, if we didn't touch feet."
     "Feet?"
     He told me about the Bokononist attitude relative to feet.
     "That explains something I saw in the hotel." I told him
about the two painters on the window sill.

     "It works, you know," he said. "People who do that really do
feel better about each other and the world."
     "Um."
     "_Boko-maru_."
     "Sir?"
     "That's what the foot business is called," said Castle. "It
works. I'm grateful for things that work. Not many things _do_
work, you know."
     "I suppose not."
     "I couldn't possibly run that hospital of mine if it weren't
for aspirin and _boko-maru_."
     "I gather," I said, "that there are still several Bokononists
on the island, despite the laws, despite the _hy-u-o-ook-kuh_ . .
."
     He laughed. "You haven't caught on, yet?"
     "To what?"
     "Everybody on San Lorenzo is a devout Bokononist, the _hy-u-
o-ook-kuh_ notwithstanding."
Ring of Steel 78
     "When Bokonon and McCabe took over this miserable country
years ago," said Julian Castle, "they threw out the priests. And
then Bokonon, cynically and playfully, invented a new religion."
     "I know," I said.
     "Well, when it became evident that no governmental or
economic reform was going to make the people much less miserable,
the religion became the one real instrument of hope. Truth was the
enemy of the people, because the truth was so terrible, so Bokonon
made it his business to provide the people with better and better
lies."
     "How did he come to be an outlaw?"
     "It was his own idea. He asked McCabe to outlaw him and his
religion, too, in order to give the religious life of the people
more zest, more tang. He wrote a little poem about it,
incidentally."
     Castle quoted this poem, which does not appear in _The Books
of Bokonon_:

          So I said good-bye to government,
          And I gave my reason:
          That a really good religion
          Is a form of treason.
     "Bokonon suggested the hook, too, as the proper punishment
for Bokononists," he said. "It was something he'd seen in the
Chamber of Horrors at Madame Tussaud's." He winked ghoulishly.
"That was for zest, too."
     "Did many people die on the hook?"
     "Not at first, not at first. At first it was all make-
believe. Rumors were cunningly circulated about executions, but no
one really knew anyone who had died that way. McCabe had a good
old time making bloodthirsty threats against the Bokononists--
which was everybody.
     "And Bokonon went into cozy hiding in the jungle," Castle
continued, "where he wrote and preached all day long and ate good
things his disciples brought him.
     "McCabe would organize the unemployed, which was practically
everybody, into great Bokonon hunts.
     "About every six months McCabe would announce triumphantly
that Bokonon was surrounded by a ring of steel, which was
remorselessly closing in.
     "And then the leaders of the remorseless ring would have to
report to McCabe, full of chagrin and apoplexy, that Bokonon had
done the impossible.
     "He had escaped, had evaporated, had lived to preach another
day. Miracle!"
Why McCabe's Soul Grew Coarse 79
     "McCabe and Bokonon did not succeed in raising what is
generally thought of as the standard of living," said Castle. "The
truth was that life was as short and brutish and mean as ever.

     "But people didn't have to pay as much attention to the awful
truth. As the living legend of the cruel tyrant in the city and
the gentle holy man in the jungle grew, so, too, did the happiness
of the people grow. They were all employed full time as actors in
a play they understood, that any human being anywhere could
understand and applaud."
     "So life became a work of art," I marveled.
     "Yes. There was only one trouble with it."
     "Oh?"
     "The drama was very tough on the souls of the two main
actors, McCabe and Bokonon. As young men, they had been pretty
much alike, had both been half-angel, half-pirate.
     "But the drama demanded that the pirate half of Bokonon and
the angel half of McCabe wither away. And McCabe and Bokonon paid
a terrible price in agony for the  happiness of the people--McCabe
knowing the agony of the tyrant and Bokonon knowing the agony of
the saint. They both became, for all practical purposes, insane."
     Castle crooked the index finger of his left hand. "And then,
people really did start dying on the _hy-u-o-ook-kuh_."
     "But Bokonon was never caught?" I asked.
     "McCabe never went that crazy. He never made a really serious
effort to catch Bokonon. It would have been easy to do."
     "Why didn't he catch him?"
     "McCabe was always sane enough to realize that without the
holy man to war against, he himself would become meaningless.
'Papa' Monzano understands that, too."
     "Do people still die on the hook?"
     "It's inevitably fatal."
     "I mean," I said, "does 'Papa' really have people executed
that way?"
     "He executes one every two years--just to keep the pot
boiling, so to speak." He sighed, looking up at the evening sky.
"Busy, busy, busy."
"Sir?"
     "It's what we Bokononists say," he said, "when we feel that a
lot of mysterious things are going on."
     "You?" I was amazed. "A Bokononist, too?"
     He gazed at me levelly. "You, too. You'll find out."

The Waterfall Strainers 80
     Angela and Newt were on the cantilevered terrace with Julian
Castle and me. We had cocktails. There was still no word from
Frank.
     Both Angela and Newt, it appeared, were fairly heavy
drinkers. Castle told me that his days as a playboy had cost him a
kidney, and that he was unhappily compelled, per force, to stick
to ginger ale.
     Angela, when she got a few drinks into her, complained of how
the world had swindled her father. "He gave so much, and they gave
him so little."
     I pressed her for examples of the world's stinginess and got
some exact numbers. "General Forge and Foundry gave him a forty-
five-dollar bonus for every patent his work led to," she said.
"That's the same patent bonus they paid anybody in the company."
She shook her head mournfully. "Forty-five dollars--and just think
what some of those patents were for!"
     "Um," I said. "I assume he got a salary, too."
     "The most he ever made was twenty-eight thousand dollars a
year."
     "I'd say that was pretty good."
     She got very huffy. "You know what movie stars make?"
     "A lot, sometimes."
     "You know Dr. Breed made ten thousand more dollars a year
than Father did?"
     "That was certainly an injustice."
     "I'm sick of injustice."
     She was so shrilly exercised that I changed the subject. I
asked Julian Castle what he thought had become of the painting he
had thrown down the waterfall.
     "There's a little village at the bottom," he told me. "Five
or ten shacks, I'd say. It's 'Papa' Monzano's birthplace,
incidentally. The waterfall ends in a big stone bowl there.
     "The villagers have a net made out of chicken wire stretched
across a notch in the bowl. Water spills out through the notch
into a stream."
     "And Newt's painting is in the net now, you think?" I asked.
     "This is a poor country--in case you haven't noticed," said
Castle. "Nothing stays in the net very long. I imagine Newt's
painting is being dried in the sun by now, along with the butt of
my cigar. Four square feet of gummy canvas, the four milled and
mitered sticks of the stretcher, some tacks, too, and a cigar. All
in all, a pretty nice catch for some poor, poor man."
     "I could just scream sometimes," said Angela, "when I think
about how much some people get paid and how little they paid

Father--and how much he gave." She was on the edge of a crying
jag.
     "Don't cry," Newt begged her gently.
     "Sometimes I can't help it," she said.
     "Go get your clarinet," urged Newt. "That always helps."
     I thought at first that this was a fairly comical suggestion.
But then, from Angela's reaction, I learned that the suggestion
was serious and practical.
     "When I get this way," she said to Castle and me, "sometimes
it's the only thing that helps."
     But she was too shy to get her clarinet right away. We had to
keep begging her to play, and she had to have two more drinks.
     "She's really just wonderful," little Newt promised.
     "I'd love to hear you play," said Castle.
     "All right," said Angela finally as she rose unsteadily. "All
right--I will."
     When she was out of earshot, Newt apologized for her., "She's
had a tough time. She needs a rest."
     "She's been sick?" I asked.
     "Her husband is mean as hell to her," said Newt. He showed us
that he hated Angela's handsome young husband, the extremely
successful Harrison C. Conners, President of Fabri-Tek. "He hardly
ever comes home--and, when he does, he's drunk and generally
covered with lipstick."
     "From the way she talked," I said, "I thought it was a very
happy marriage."
     Little Newt held his hands six inches apart and he spread his
fingers. "See the cat? See the cradle?"
A White Bride for the Son of a Pullman Porter 81
     I did not know what was going to come from Angela's clarinet.
No one could have imagined what was going to come from there.
     I expected something pathological, but I did not expect the
depth, the violence, and the almost intolerable beauty of the
disease.

     Angela moistened and warmed the mouthpiece, but did not blow
a single preliminary note. Her eyes glazed over, and her long,
bony fingers twittered idly over the noiseless keys.
     I waited anxiously, and I remembered what Marvin Breed had
told me--that Angela's one escape from her bleak life with her
father was to her room, where she would lock the door and play
along with phonograph records.
     Newt now put a long-playing record on the large phonograph in
the room off the terrace. He came back with the record's slipcase,
which he handed to me.
     The record was called _Cat House Piano_. It was of
unaccompanied piano by Meade Lux Lewis.
     Since Angela, in order to deepen her trance, let Lewis play
his first number without joining him, I read some of what the
jacket said about Lewis.
     "Born in Louisville, Ky., in 1905," I read, "Mr. Lewis didn't
turn to music until he had passed his 16th birthday and then the
instrument provided by his father was the violin. A year later
young Lewis chanced to hear Jimmy Yancey play the piano. 'This,'
as Lewis recalls, 'was the real thing.' Soon," I read, "Lewis was
teaching himself to play the boogie-woogie piano, absorbing all
that was possible from the older Yancey, who remained until his
death a close friend and idol to Mr. Lewis. Since his father was a
Pullman porter," I read, "the Lewis family lived near the
railroad. The rhythm of the trains soon became a natural pattern
to young Lewis and he composed the boogie-woogie solo, now a
classic of its kind, which became known as 'Honky Tonk Train
Blues.'"
     I looked up from my reading. The first number on the record
was done. The phonograph needle was now scratching its slow way
across the void to the second. The second number, I learned from
the jacket, was "Dragon Blues."
     Meade Lux Lewis played four bars alone-and then Angela
Hoenikker joined in.
     Her eyes were closed.
     I was flabbergasted.
     She was great.
     She improvised around the music of the Pullman porter's son;
went from liquid lyricism to rasping lechery to the shrill
skittishness of a frightened child, to a heroin nightmare.
     Her glissandi spoke of heaven and hell and all that lay
between.
     Such music from such a woman could only be a case of
schizophrenia or demonic possession.
     My hair stood on end, as though Angela were rolling on the
floor, foaming at the mouth, and babbling fluent Babylonian.

     When the music was done, I shrieked at Julian Castle, who was
transfixed, too, "My God--life! Who can understand even one little
minute of it?"
     "Don't try," he said. "Just pretend you understand."
     "That's--that's very good advice." I went limp.
     Castle quoted another poem:
          Tiger got to hunt,
          Bird got to fly;
          Man got to sit and wonder, "Why, why, why?"
          Tiger got to sleep,
          Bird got to land;
          Man got to tell himself he understand.
     "What's that from?" I asked.
     "What could it possibly be from but _The Books of Bokonon?_"
     "I'd love to see a copy sometime."
     "Copies are hard to come by," said Castle. "They aren't
printed. They're made by hand. And, of course, there is no such
thing as a completed copy, since Bokonon is adding things every
day."
     Little Newt snorted. "Religion!"
     "Beg your pardon?" Castle said.
     "See the cat?" asked Newt. "See the cradle?"
Zah-mah-ki-bo 82
     Major General Franklin Hoenikker didn't appear for supper.
     He telephoned, and insisted on talking to me and to no one
else. He told me that he was keeping a vigil by "Papa's" bed; that
"Papa" was dying in great pain. Frank sounded scared and lonely.
     "Look," I said, "why don't I go back to my hotel, and you and
I can get together later, when this crisis is over."
     "No, no, no. You stay right there! I want you to be where I
can get hold of you right away!" He was panicky about my slipping

out of his grasp. Since I couldn't account for his interest in me,
I began to feel panic, too.
     "Could you give me some idea what you want to see me about?"
I asked.
     "Not over the telephone."
     "Something about your father?"
     "Something about _you_."
     "Something I've done?"
     "Something you're _going_ to do."
     I heard a chicken clucking in the background of Frank's end
of the line. I heard a door open, and xylophone music came from
some chamber. The music was again "When Day Is Done." And then the
door was closed, and I couldn't hear the music any more.
     "I'd appreciate it if you'd give me some small hint of what
you expect me to do--so I can sort of get set," I said.
     "_Zah-mah-ki-bo_."
     "What?"
     "It's a Bokononist word."
     "I don't know any Bokononist words."
     "Julian Castle's there?"
     "Yes."
     "Ask him," said Frank. "I've got to go now." He hung up. So I
asked Julian Castle what _zah-mah-ki-bo_ meant.
     "You want a simple answer or a whole answer?"
     "Let's start with a simple one."
     "Fate--inevitable destiny."
Dr. Schlichter von Koenigswald 83
Approaches the Break-even Point
     "Cancer," said Julian Castle at dinner, when I told him that
"Papa" was dying in pain.
     "Cancer of what?"
     "Cancer of about everything. You say he collapsed on the
reviewing stand today?"
     "He sure did," said Angela.

     "That was the effect of drugs," Castle declared. "He's at the
point now where drugs and pain just about balance out. More drugs
would kill him."
     "I'd kill myself, I think," murmured Newt. He was sitting on
a sort of folding high chair he took with him when he went
visiting. It was made of aluminum tubing and canvas. "It beats
sitting on a dictionary, an atlas, and a telephone book," he'd
said when he erected it.
     "That's what Corporal McCabe did, of course," said Castle.
"He named his major-domo as his successor, then he shot himself."
     "Cancer, too?" I asked.
     "I can't be sure; I don't think so, though. Unrelieved
villainy just wore him out, is my guess. That was all before my
time."
     "This certainly is a cheerful conversation," said Angela.
     "I think everybody would agree that these are cheerful
times," said Castle.
     "Well," I said to him, "I'd think you would have more reasons
for being cheerful than most, doing what you are doing with your
life."
     "I once had a yacht, too, you know."
     "I don't follow you."
     "Having a yacht is a reason for being more cheerful than
most, too."
     "If you aren't 'Papa's' doctor," I said, "who is?"
     "One of my staff, a Dr. Schlichter von Koenigswald."
     "A German?"
     "Vaguely. He was in the S.S. for fourteen years. He was a
camp physician at Auschwitz for six of those years."
     "Doing penance at the House of Hope and Mercy is he?"
     "Yes," said Castle, "and making great strides, too, saving
lives right and left."
     "Good for him."
     "Yes. If he keeps going at his present rate, working night
and day, the number of people he's saved will equal the number of
people he let die--in the year 3010."
     So there's another member of my _karass_: Dr. Schlichter von
Koenigswald.

Blackout 84
     Three hours after supper Frank still hadn't come home. Julian
Castle excused himself and went back to the House of Hope and
Mercy in the Jungle.
     Angela and Newt and I sat on the cantilevered terrace. The
lights of Bolivar were lovely below us. There was a great,
illuminated cross on top of the administration building of Monzano
Airport. It was motor-driven, turning slowly, boxing the compass
with electric piety.
     There were other bright places on the island, too, to the
north of us. Mountains prevented our seeing them directly, but we
could see in the sky their balloons of light. I asked Stanley,
Frank Hoenikker's major-domo, to identify for me the sources of
the auroras.
     He pointed them out, counterclockwise. "House of Hope and
Mercy in the Jungle, 'Papa's' palace, and Fort Jesus."
     "Fort Jesus?"
     "The training camp for our soldiers."
     "It's named after Jesus Christ?"
     "Sure. Why not?"
     There was a new balloon of light growing quickly to the
north. Before I could ask what it was, it revealed itself as
headlights topping a ridge. The headlights were coming toward us.
They belonged to a convoy.
     The convoy was composed of five American-made army trucks.
Machine gunners manned ring mounts on the tops of the cabs.
     The convoy stopped in Frank's driveway. Soldiers dismounted
at once. They set to work on the grounds, digging foxholes and
machine-gun pits. I went out with Frank's major-domo to ask the
officer in charge what was going on.
     "We have been ordered to protect the next President of San
Lorenzo," said the officer in island dialect.
     "He isn't here now," I informed him.
     "I don't know anything about it," he said. "My orders are to
dig in here. That's all I know."
     I told Angela and Newt about it.
     "Do you think there's any real danger?" Angela asked me.
     "I'm a stranger here myself," I said.
     At that moment there was a power failure. Every electric
light in San Lorenzo went out.

A Pack of Foma 85
     Frank's servants brought us gasoline lanterns; told us that
power failures were common in San Lorenzo, that there was no cause
for alarm. I found that disquiet was hard for me to set aside,
however, since Frank had spoken of my _zah-mah-ki-bo_.
     He had made me feel as though my own free will were as
irrelevant as the free will of a piggy-wig arriving at the Chicago
stockyards.
     I remembered again the stone angel in ilium.
     And I listened to the soldiers outside--to their clinking,
chunking, murmuring labors.
     I was unable to concentrate on the conversation of Angela and
Newt, though they got onto a fairly interesting subject. They told
me that their father had had an identical twin. They had never met
him. His name was Rudolph. The last they had heard of him, he was
a music-box manufacturer in Zurich, Switzerland.
     "Father hardly ever mentioned him," said Angela.
     "Father hardly ever mentioned anybody," Newt declared.
     There was a sister of the old man, too, they told me. Her
name was Celia. She raised giant schnauzers on Shelter Island, New
York.
     "She always sends a Christmas card," said Angela.
     "With a picture of a giant schnauzer on it," said little
Newt.
     "It sure is funny how different people in different families
turn out," Angela observed.
     "That's very true and well said," I agreed. I excused myself
from the glittering company, and I asked Stanley, the major-domo,
if there happened to be a copy of _The Books of Bokonon_ about the
house.
     Stanley pretended not to know what I was talking about. And
then he grumbled that _The Books of Bokonon_ were filth. And then
he insisted that anyone who read them should die on the hook. And
then he brought me a copy from Frank's bedside table.
     It was a heavy thing, about the size of an unabridged
dictionary. It was written by hand. I trundled it off to my
bedroom, to my slab of rubber on living rock.
     There was no index, so my search for the implications of
_zah-mah-ki-bo_ was difficult; was, in fact, fruitless that night.
     I learned some things, but they were scarcely helpful. I
learned of the Bokononist cosmogony, for instance, wherein

_Borasisi_, the sun, held _Pabu_, the moon, in his arms, and hoped
that _Pabu_ would bear him a fiery child.
     But poor _Pabu_ gave birth to children that were cold, that
did not burn; and _Borasisi_ threw them away in disgust. These
were the planets, who circled their terrible father at a safe
distance.
     Then poor _Pabu_ herself was cast away, and she went to live
with her favorite child, which was Earth. Earth was _Pabu's_
favorite because it had people on it; and the people looked up at
her and loved her and sympathized.
     And what opinion did Bokonon hold of his own cosmogony?
     "_Foma!_ Lies!" he wrote. "A pack of _foma!_"
Two Little Jugs 86
     It's hard to believe that I slept at all, but I must have--
for, otherwise, how could I have found myself awakened by a series
of bangs and a flood of light?
     I rolled out of bed at the first bang and ran to the heart of
the house in the brainless ecstasy of a volunteer fireman.
     I found myself rushing headlong at Newt and Angela, who were
fleeing from beds of their own.
     We all stopped short, sheepishly analyzing the nightmarish
sounds around us, sorting them out as coming from a radio, from an
electric dishwasher, from a pump--all restored to noisy life by
the return of electric power.
     The three of us awakened enough to realize that there was
humor in our situation, that we had reacted in amusingly human
ways to a situation that seemed mortal but wasn't. And to
demonstrate my mastery over my illusory fate, I turned the radio
off.
     We all chuckled.
     And we all vied, in saving face, to be the greatest student
of human nature, the person with the quickest sense of humor.
     Newt was the quickest; he pointed out to me that I had my
passport and my billfold and my wristwatch in my hands. I had no
idea what I'd grabbed in the face of death--didn't know I'd
grabbed anything.

     I countered hilariously by asking Angela and Newt why it was
that they both carried little Thermos jugs, identical red-and-gray
jugs capable of holding about three cups of coffee.
     It was news to them both that they were carrying such jugs.
They were shocked to find them in their hands.
     They were spared making an explanation by more banging
outside. I was bound to find out what the banging was right away;
and, with a brazenness as unjustified as my earlier panic, I
investigated, found Frank Hoenikker outside tinkering with a
motor-generator set mounted on a truck.
     The generator was the new source of our electricity. The
gasoline motor that drove it was backfiring and smoking. Frank was
trying to fix it.
     He had the heavenly Mona with him. She was watching him, as
always, gravely.
     "Boy, have I got news for you!" he yelled at me, and he led
the way back into the house.
     Angela and Newt were still in the living room, but, somehow,
somewhere, they had managed to get rid of their peculiar Thermos
jugs.
     The contents of those jugs, of course, were parts of the
legacies from Dr. Felix Hoenikker, were parts of the _wampeter_ of
my _karass_, were chips of _ice-nine_.
     Frank took me aside. "How awake are you?"
     "As awake as I ever was."
     "I hope you're really wide awake, because we've got to have a
talk right now."
     "Start talking."
     "Let's get some privacy." Frank told Mona to make herself
comfortable. "We'll call you if we need you."
     I looked at Mona, meltingly, and I thought that I had never
needed anyone as much as I needed her.
The Cut of My Jib 81
     About this Franklin Hoenikker--the pinch-faced child spoke
with the timbre and conviction of a kazoo. I had heard it said in
the Army that such and such a man spoke like a man with a paper

rectum. Such a man was General Hoenikker. Poor Frank had had
almost no experience in talking to anyone, having spent a furtive
childhood as Secret Agent X-9.
     Now, hoping to be hearty and persuasive, he said tinny things
to me, things like, "I like the cut of your jib!" and "I want to
talk cold turkey to you, man to man!"
     And he took me down to what he called his "den" in order that
we might, ". . . call a spade a spade, and let the chips fall
where they may."
     So we went down steps cut into a cliff and into a natural
cave that was beneath and behind the waterfall. There were a
couple of drawing tables down there; three pale, bare-boned
Scandinavian chairs; a bookcase containing books on architecture,
books in German, French, Finnish, Italian, English.
     All was lit by electric lights, lights that pulsed with the
panting of the motor-generator set.
     And the most striking thing about the cave was that there
were pictures painted on the walls, painted with kindergarten
boldness, painted with the flat clay, earth, and charcoal colors
of very early man. I did not have to ask Frank how old the cave
paintings were. I was able to date them by their subject. The
paintings were not of mammoths or saber-toothed tigers or
ithyphallic cave bears.
     The paintings treated endlessly the aspects of Mona Aamons
Monzano as a little girl.
     "This--this is where Mona's father worked?" I asked.
     "That's right. He was the Finn who designed the House of Hope
and Mercy in the Jungle."
     "I know."
     "That isn't what I brought you down here to talk about."
     "This is something about your father?"
     "This is about _you_." Frank put his hand on my shoulder and
he looked me in the eye. The effect was dismaying. Frank meant to
inspire camaraderie, but his head looked to me like a bizarre
little owl, blinded by light and perched on a tall white post.
     "Maybe you'd better come to the point."
     "There's no sense in beating around the bush," he said. "I'm
a pretty good judge of character, if I do say so myself, and I
like the cut of your jib."
     "Thank you."
     "I think you and I could really hit it off."
     "I have no doubt of it."
     'We've both got things that mesh."
     I was grateful when he took his hand from my shoulder. He
meshed the fingers of his hands like gear teeth. One hand
represented him, I suppose, and the other represented me.

     "We need each other." He wiggled his fingers to show me how
gears worked.
     I was silent for some time, though outwardly friendly.
     "Do you get my meaning?" asked Frank at last.
     "You and I--we're going to _do_ something together?"
     "That's right!" Frank clapped his hands. "You're a worldly
person, used to meeting the public; and I'm a technical person,
used to working behind the scenes, making things go."
     "How can you possibly know what kind of a person I am? We've
just met."
     "Your clothes, the way you talk." He put his hand on my
shoulder again. "I like the cut of your jib!"
     "So you said."
     Frank was frantic for me to complete his thought, to do it
enthusiastically, but I was still at sea. "Am I to understand that
. . . that you are offering me some kind of job here, here in San
Lorenzo?"
     He clapped his hands. He was delighted. "That's right! What
would you say to a hundred thousand dollars a year?"
     "Good God!" I cried. "What would I have to do for that?"
     "Practically nothing. And you'd drink out of gold goblets
every night and eat off of gold plates and have a palace all your
own."
     "What's the job?"
     "President of the Republic of San Lorenzo."
Why Frank Couldn't Be President 88
     "Me? President?" I gasped.
     "Who else is there?"
     "Nuts!"
     "Don't say no until you've really thought about it." Frank
watched me anxiously.
     "No!"
     "You haven't really thought about it."
     "Enough to know it's crazy."
     Frank made his fingers into gears again. "We'd work
_together_. I'd be backing you up all the time."

     "Good. So, if I got plugged from the front you'd get it,
too."
     "Plugged?"
     "Shot! Assassinated!"
     Frank was mystified. "Why would anybody shoot you?"
     "So he could get to be President."
     Frank shook his head. "Nobody in San Lorenzo wants to be
President," he promised me. "It's against their religion."
     "It's against _your_ religion, too? I thought you were going
to be the next President."
     "I . . ." he said, and found it hard to go on. He looked
haunted.
     "You what?" I asked.
     He faced the sheet of water that curtained the cave.
"Maturity, the way I understand it," he told me, "is knowing what
your limitations are."
     He wasn't far from Bokonon in defining maturity. "Maturity,"
Bokonon tells us, "is a bitter disappointment for which no remedy
exists, unless laughter can be said to remedy anything."
     "I know I've got limitations," Frank continued. "They're the
same limitations my father had."
"Oh?"
     "I've got a lot of very good ideas, just the way my father
did," Frank told me and the waterfall, "but he was no good at
facing the public, and neither am I."
Duffle 89
     "You'll take the job?" Frank inquired anxiously.
     "No," I told him.
     "Do you know anybody who _might_ want the job?" Frank was
giving a classic illustration of what Bokonon calls _duffle_.
_Duffle_, in the Bokononist sense, is the destiny of thousands
upon thousands of persons when placed in the hands of a _stuppa_.
A _stuppa_ is a fogbound child.
     I laughed.
     "Something's funny?"

     "Pay no attention when I laugh," I begged him. "I'm a
notorious pervert in that respect."
     "Are you laughing at me?" I shook my head.
     "No."
     "Word of honor?"
     "Word of honor."
     "People used to make fun of me all the time."
     "You must have imagined that."
     "They used to yell things at me. I didn't imagine _that_."
     "People are unkind sometimes without meaning to be," I
suggested. I wouldn't have given him my word of honor on that.
     "You know what they used to yell at me?"
     "No."
     "They used to yell at me, 'Hey, X-9, where you going?'"
     "That doesn't seem too bad."
     "That's what they used to call me," said Frank in sulky
reminiscence, "'Secret Agent X-9.'"
     I didn't tell him I knew that already.
     "'Where are you going, X-9?' "Frank echoed again.
     I imagined what the taunters had been like, imagined where
Fate had eventually goosed and chivvied them to. The wits who had
yelled at Frank were surely nicely settled in deathlike jobs at
Genera! Forge and Foundry, at Ilium Power and Light, at the
Telephone Company. .
     And here, by God, was Secret Agent X-9, a Major General,
offering to make me king . . . in a cave that was curtained by a
tropical waterfall.
     "They really would have been surprised if I'd stopped and
told them where I was going."
     "You mean you had some premonition you'd end up here?" It was
a Bokononist question.
     "I was going to Jack's Hobby Shop," he said, with no sense of
anticlimax.
"Oh."
     "They all knew I was going there, but they didn't know what
really went on there. They would have been really surprised--
especially the girls--if they'd found out what _really_ went on.
The girls didn't think I knew anything about girls."
     "What _really_ went on?"
     "I was screwing Jack's wife every day. That's how come I fell
asleep all the time in high school. That's how come I never
achieved my full potential."
     He roused himself from this sordid recollection. "Come on. Be
president of San Lorenzo. You'd be real good at it, with your
personality. Please?"

Only One Catch 90
     And the time of night and the cave and the waterfall--and the
stone angel in Ilium . . .
     And 250,000 cigarettes and 3,000 quarts of booze, and two
wives and no wife . . .
     And no love waiting for me anywhere . . .
     And the listless life of an ink-stained hack . . .
     And _Pabu_, the moon, and _Borasisi_, the sun, and their
children . . .
     All things conspired to form one cosmic _vin-dit_, one mighty
shove into Bokononism, into the belief that God was running my
life and that He had work for me to do.  And, inwardly, I
_sarooned_, which is to say that I acquiesced to the seeming
demands of my _vin-dit_.
     Inwardly, I agreed to become the next President of San
Lorenzo.
     Outwardly, I was still guarded, suspicious. "There must be a
catch," I hedged.
     "There isn't."
     "There'll be an election?"
     "There never has been. We'll just announce who the new
President is."
     "And nobody will object?"
     "Nobody objects to anything. They aren't interested. They
don't care."
     "There _has_ to be a catch!"
     "There's kind of one," Frank admitted.
     "I knew it!" I began to shrink from my _vin-dit_. "What is
it? What's the catch?"
     "Well, it isn't really a catch, because you don't have to do
it, if you don't want to. It _would_ be a good idea, though."
     "Let's hear this great idea."
     "Well, if you're going to be President, I think you really
ought to marry Mona. But you don't have to, if you don't want to.
You're the boss."
     "She would _have_ me?"
     "If she'd have me, she'd have you. All you have to do is ask
her."

     "Why should she say yes?"
     "It's predicted in _The Books of Bokonon_ that she'll marry
the next President of San Lorenzo," said Frank.
Mona 91
     Frank brought Mona to her father's cave and left us alone. We
had difficulty in speaking at first. I was shy. Her gown was
diaphanous. Her gown was azure. It was a simple gown, caught
lightly at the waist by a gossamer thread. All else was shaped by
Mona herself. Her breasts were like pomegranates or what you will,
but like nothing so much as a young woman's breasts.
     Her feet were all but bare. Her toenails were exquisitely
manicured. Her scanty sandals were gold.
     "How--how do you do?" I asked. My heart was pounding. Blood
boiled in my ears.
     "It is not possible to make a mistake," she assured me. I did
not know that this was a customary greeting given by all
Bokononists when meeting a shy person. So, I responded with a
feverish discussion of whether it was possible to make a mistake
or not.
     "My God, you have no idea how many mistakes I've already
made. You're looking at the world's champion mistake-maker," I
blurted--and so on. "Do you have any idea what Frank just said to
me?"
     "About _me?_"
     "About everything, but _especially_ about you."
     "He told you that you could have me, if you wanted."
     "Yes."
     "That's true."
     "I--I--I . . ."
     "Yes?"
     "I don't know what to say next."
     "_Boko-maru_ would help," she suggested.
     "What?"
     "Take off your shoes," she commanded. And she removed her
sandals with the utmost grace.

     I am a man of the world, having had, by a reckoning I once
made, more than fifty-three women. I can say that I have seen
women undress themselves in every way that it can be done. I have
watched the curtains part in every variation of the final act.
     And yet, the one woman who made me groan involuntarily did no
more than remove her sandals.
     I tried to untie my shoes. No bridegroom ever did worse. I
got one shoe off, but knotted the other one tight. I tore a
thumbnail on the knot; finally ripped off the shoe without untying
it.
     Then off came my socks.
     Mona was already sitting on the floor, her legs extended, her
round arms thrust behind her for support, her head tilted back,
her eyes closed.
     It was up to me now to complete my first--my first--my first,
Great God . . .
     _Boko-maru_.
On the Poet's Celebration of His First Boko-maru 92
     These are not Bokonon's words. They are mine.
          Sweet wraith,
          Invisible mist of . . .
          I am--
          My soul--
          Wraith lovesick o'erlong,
          O'erlong alone:
          Wouldst another sweet soul meet?
          Long have I
          Advised thee ill
          As to where two souls
          Might tryst.
          My soles, my soles!
          My soul, my soul,
          Go there,
          Sweet soul;
          Be kissed.

Mmmmmmm.
How I Almost Lost My Mona 93
     "Do you find it easier to talk to me now?" Mona inquired.
     "As though I'd known you for a thousand years," I confessed.
I felt like crying. "I love you, Mona."
     "I love you." She said it simply.
     "What a fool Frank was!"
     "Oh?"
     "To give you up."
     "He did not love me. He was going to marry me only because
'Papa' wanted him to. He loves another."
     "Who?"
     "A woman he knew in Ilium."
     The lucky woman had to be the wife of the owner of Jack's
Hobby Shop. "He told you?"
     "Tonight, when he freed me to marry you."
     "Mona?"
     "Yes?"
     "Is--is there anyone else in your life?"
     She was puzzled. "Many," she said at last.
     "That you _love?_"
     "I love everyone."
     "As--as much as me?"
     "Yes." She seemed to have no idea that this might bother me.
     I got off the floor, sat in a chair, and started putting my
shoes and socks back on.
     "I suppose you--you perform--you do what we just did with--
with other people?"
     "_Boko-maru?_"
     "_Boko-maru_."
"Of course."
     "I don't want you to do it with anybody but me from now on,"
I declared.
     Tears filled her eyes. She adored her promiscuity; was
angered that I should try to make her feel shame. "I make people
happy. Love is good, not bad."

     "As your husband, I'll want all your love for myself."
     She stared at me with widening eyes. "A _sin-wat!_"
     "What was that?"
     "A _sin-wat!_" she cried. "A man who wants all of somebody's
love. That's very bad."
     "In the case of marriage, I think it's a very good thing.
It's the only thing."
     She was still on the floor, and I, now with my shoes and
socks back on, was standing. I felt very tall, though I'm not very
tall; and I felt very strong, though I'm not very strong; and I
was a respectful stranger to my own voice. My voice had a metallic
authority that was new.
     As I went on talking in ball-peen tones, it dawned on me what
was happening, what was happening already. I was already starting
to rule.
     I told Mona that I had seen her performing a sort of vertical
_boko-maru_ with a pilot on the reviewing stand shortly after my
arrival. "You are to have nothing more to do with him," I told
her. "What is his name?"
     "I don't even know," she whispered. She was looking down now.
     "And what about young Philip Castle?"
     "You mean _boko-maru?_"
     "I mean anything and everything. As I understand it, you two
grew up together."
     "Yes."
     "Bokonon tutored you both?"
     "Yes." The recollection made her radiant again.
     "I suppose there was plenty of _boko-maruing_ in those days."
     "Oh, yes!" she said happily.
     "You aren't to see him any more, either. Is that clear?"
     "No."
     "No?"
     "I will not marry a _sin-wat_." She stood. "Good-bye."
     "Good-bye?" I was crushed.
     "Bokonon tells us it is very wrong not to love everyone
exactly the same. What does _your_ religion say?"
     "I--I don't have one."
     "I _do_."
     I had stopped ruling. "I see you do," I said.
     "Good-bye, man-with-no-religion." She went to the stone
staircase.
     "Mona . . ."
     She stopped. "Yes?"
     "Could I have your religion, if I wanted it?"
     "Of course."
     "I want it."
     "Good. I love you."

"And I love you," I sighed.
The Highest Mountain 94
     So I became betrothed at dawn to the most beautiful woman in
the world. And I agreed to become the next President of San
Lorenzo.
     "Papa" wasn't dead yet, and it was Frank's feeling that I
should get "Papa's" blessing, if possible. So, as _Borasisi_, the
sun, came up, Frank and I drove to "Papa's" castle in a Jeep we
commandeered from the troops guarding the next President.
     Mona stayed at Frank's. I kissed her sacredly, and she went
to sacred sleep.
     Over the mountains Frank and I went, through groves of wild
coffee trees, with the flamboyant sunrise on our right.
     It was in the sunrise that the cetacean majesty of the
highest mountain on the island, of Mount McCabe, made itself known
to me. It was a fearful hump, a blue whale, with one queer stone
plug on its back for a peak. In scale with a whale, the plug might
have been the stump of a snapped harpoon, and it seemed so
unrelated to the rest of the mountain that I asked Frank if it had
been built by men.
     He told me that it was a natural formation. Moreover, he
declared that no man, as far as he knew, had ever been to the top
of Mount McCabe.
     "It _doesn't_ look very tough to climb," I commented. Save
for the plug at the top, the mountain presented inclines no more
forbidding than courthouse steps. And the plug itself, from a
distance at any rate, seemed conveniently laced with ramps and
ledges.
     "Is it sacred or something?" I asked.
     "Maybe it was once. But not since Bokonon."
     "Then why hasn't anybody climbed it?"
     "Nobody's felt like it yet."
     "Maybe I'll climb it."
     "Go ahead. Nobody's stopping you."
     We rode in silence.
     "What _is_ sacred to Bokononists?" I asked after a while.

"Not even God, as near as I can tell."
"Nothing?"
"Just one thing."
I made some guesses. "The ocean? The sun?"
"Man," said Frank. "That's all. Just man."
I See the Hook 95
     We came at last to the castle.
     It was low and black and cruel.
     Antique cannons still lolled on the battlements. Vines and
bird nests clogged the crenels, the machicolations, and the
balistrariae.
     Its parapets to the north were continuous with the scarp of a
monstrous precipice that fell six hundred feet straight down to
the lukewarm sea.
     It posed the question posed by all such stone piles: how had
puny men moved stones so big? And, like all such stone piles, it
answered the question itself. Dumb terror had moved those stones
so big.
     The castle was built according to the wish of Tum-bumwa,
Emperor of San Lorenzo, a demented man, an escaped slave. Tum-
bumwa was said to have found its design in a child's picture book.
     A gory book it must have been.
     Just before we reached the palace gate the ruts carried us
through a rustic arch made of two telephone poles and a beam that
spanned them.
     Hanging from the middle of the beam was a huge iron hook.
There was a sign impaled on the hook.
     "This hook," the sign proclaimed, "is reserved for Bokonon
himself."
     I turned to look at the hook again, and that thing of sharp
iron communicated to me that I really was going to rule. I would
chop down the hook!
     And I flattered myself that I was going to be a firm, just,
and kindly ruler, and that my people would prosper.
     Fata Morgana.
     Mirage!

Bell, Book, and Chicken in a Hatbox 96
     Frank and I couldn't get right in to see "Papa." Dr.
Schlichter von Koenigswald, the physician in attendance, muttered
that we would have to wait about half an hour.  So Frank and I
waited in the anteroom of "Papa's" suite, a room without windows.
The room was thirty feet square, furnished with several rugged
benches and a card table. The card table supported an electric
fan. The walls were stone. There were no pictures, no decorations
of any sort on the walls.
     There were iron rings fixed to the wall, however, seven feet
off the floor and at intervals of six feet. I asked Frank if the
room had ever been a torture chamber.
     He told me that it had, and that the manhole cover on which I
stood was the lid of an oubliette.
     There was a listless guard in the anteroom. There was also a
Christian minister, who was ready to take care of "Papa's"
spiritual needs as they arose. He had a brass dinner bell and a
hatbox with holes drilled in it, and a Bible, and a butcher knife-
-all laid out on the bench beside him.
     He told me there was a live chicken in the hatbox. The
chicken was quiet, he said, because he had fed it tranquilizers.
     Like all San Lorenzans past the age of twenty-five, he looked
at least sixty. He told me that his name was Dr. Vox Humana, that
he was named after an organ stop that had struck his mother when
San Lorenzo Cathedral was dynamited in 1923. His father, he told
me without shame, was unknown.
     I asked him what particular Christian sect he represented,
and I observed frankly that the chicken and the butcher knife were
novelties insofar as my understanding of Christianity went.
     "The bell," I commented, "I can understand how that might fit
in nicely."
     He turned out to be an intelligent man. His doctorate, which
he invited me to examine, was awarded by the Western Hemisphere
University of the Bible of Little Rock, Arkansas. He made contact
with the University through a classified ad in _Popular
Mechanics_, he told me. He said that the motto of the University

had become his own, and that it explained the chicken and the
butcher knife. The motto of the University was this:
               MAKE RELIGION LIVE!
     He said that he had had to feel his way along with
Christianity, since Catholicism and Protestantism had been
outlawed along with Bokononism.
     "So, if I am going to be a Christian under those conditions,
I have to make up a lot of new stuff."
     "_Zo_," he said in dialect, "_yeff jy bam gong be Kret-yeen
hooner yoze kon-steez-yen, jy hap my yup oon lot nee stopf_."
     Dr. Schlichter von Koenigswald now came out of "Papa's"
suite, looking very German, very tired. "You can see 'Papa' now."
     "We'll be careful not to tire him," Frank promised.
     "If you could kill him," said Von Koenigswald, "I think he'd
be grateful."
The Stinking Christian 97
     "Papa" Monzano and his merciless disease were in a bed that
was made of a golden dinghy--tiller, painter, oarlocks and all,
all gilt. His bed was the lifeboat of Bokonon's old schooner, the
_Lady's Slipper_; it was the lifeboat of the ship that had brought
Bokonon and Corporal McCabe to San Lorenzo so long ago.
     The walls of the room were white. But "Papa" radiated pain so
hot and bright that the walls seemed bathed in angry red.
     He was stripped from the waist up, and, his glistening belly
wall was knotted. His belly shivered like a luffing sail.
     Around his neck hung a chain with a cylinder the size of a
rifle cartridge for a pendant. I supposed that the cylinder
contained some magic charm. I was mistaken. It contained a
splinter of _ice-nine_.
     "Papa" could hardly speak. His teeth chattered and his
breathing was beyond control.

     "Papa's" agonized head was at the bow of the dinghy, bent
back.
     Mona's xylophone was near the bed. She had apparently tried
to soothe "Papa" with music the previous evening.
     "'Papa'?" whispered Frank.
     "Good-bye," "Papa" gasped. His eyes were bugging, sightless.
     "I brought a friend."
     "Good-bye."
     "He's going to be the next President of San Lorenzo. He'll be
a much better President than I could be."
     "Ice!" "Papa" whimpered.
     "He asks for ice," said Von Koenigswald. "When we bring it,
he does not want it."
     "Papa" rolled his eyes. He relaxed his neck, took the weight
of his body from the crown of his head. And then he arched his
neck again. "Does not matter," he said, "who is President of . .
." He did not finish.
     I finished for him. "San Lorenzo?"
     "San Lorenzo," he agreed. He managed a crooked smile. "Good
luck!" he croaked.
     "Thank you, sir," I said.
     "Doesn't matter! Bokonon. Get Bokonon."
     I attempted a sophisticated reply to this last. I remembered
that, for the joy of the people, Bokonon was always to be chased,
was never to be caught. "I will get him."
     "Tell him . . ."
     I leaned closer, in order to hear the message from "Papa" to
Bokonon.
     "Tell him I am sorry I did not kill him," said "Papa."
     "I will."
     "_You_ kill him."
     "Yessir."
     "Papa" gained control enough of his voice to make it
commanding. "I mean _really!_"
     I said nothing to that. I was not eager to kill anyone.
     "He teaches the people lies and lies and lies. Kill him and
teach the people truth."
     "Yessir."
     "You and Hoenikker, you teach them science."
     "Yessir, we will," I promised.
     "Science is magic that _works_."
     He fell silent, relaxed, closed his eyes. And then he
whispered, "Last rites."
     Von Koenigswald called Dr. Vox Humana in. Dr. Humana took his
tranquilized chicken out of the hatbox, preparing to administer
Christian last rites as he understood them.

     "Papa" opened one eye. "Not you," he sneered at Dr. Humana.
"Get out!"
     "Sir?" asked Dr. Humana.
     "I am a member of the Bokononist faith," "Papa" wheezed. "Get
out, you stinking Christian."
Last Rites 98
     So I was privileged to see the last rites of the Bokononist
faith.
     We made an effort to find someone among the soldiers and the
household staff who would admit that he knew the rites and would
give them to "Papa." We got no volunteers. That was hardly
surprising, with a hook and an oubliette so near.
     So Dr. von Koenigswald said that he would have a go at the
job. He had never administered the rites before, but he had seen
Julian Castle do it hundreds of times.
     "Are you a Bokononist?" I asked him.
     "I agree with one Bokononist idea. I agree that all
religions, including Bokononism, are nothing but lies."
     "Will this bother you as a scientist," I inquired, "to go
through a ritual like this?"
     "I am a very bad scientist. I will do anything to make a
human being feel better, even if it's unscientific. No scientist
worthy of the name could say such a thing."
     And he climbed into the golden boat with "Papa." He sat in
the stern. Cramped quarters obliged him to have the golden tiller
under one arm.
     He wore sandals without socks, and he took these off. And
then he rolled back the covers at the foot of the bed, exposing
"Papa's" bare feet. He put the soles of his feet against "Papa's"
feet, assuming the classical position for _boko-maru_.

Dyot meet mat 99
     "_Gott mate mutt_," crooned Dr. von Koenigswald.
     "_Dyot meet mat_," echoed "Papa" Monzano.
     "God made mud," was what they'd said, each in his own
dialect. I will here abandon the dialects of the litany.
     "God got lonesome," said Von Koenigswald.
     "God got lonesome."
     "So God said to some of the mud, 'Sit up!'"
     "So God said to some of the mud, 'Sit up!'"
     "'See all I've made,' said God, 'the hills, the sea, the sky,
the stars.'
     "'See all I've made,' said God, 'the hills, the sea, the sky,
the stars.'"
     "And I was some of the mud that got to sit up and look
around."
     "And I was some of the mud that got to sit up and look
around."
     "Lucky me; lucky mud."
     "Lucky me, lucky mud." Tears were streaming down "Papa's"
cheeks.
     "I, mud, sat up and saw what a nice job God had done."
     "I, mud, sat up and saw what a nice job God had done."
     "Nice going, God!"
     "Nice going, God!" "Papa" said it with all his heart.
     "Nobody but You could have done it, God! I certainly couldn't
have."
     "Nobody but You could have done it, God! I certainly couldn't
have."
     "I feel very unimportant compared to You."
     "I feel very unimportant compared to You."
     "The only way I can feel the least bit important is to think
of all the mud that didn't even get to sit up and look around."
     "The only way I can feel the least bit important is to think
of all the mud that didn't even get to sit up and look around."
     "I got so much, and most mud got so little."
     "I got so much, and most mud got so little."
     "_Deng you vore da on-oh!_" cried Von Koenigswald.
     "_Tz-yenk voo vore lo yon-yo!_" wheezed "Papa."
     What they had said was, "Thank you for the honor!"
     "Now mud lies down again and goes to sleep."
     "Now mud lies down again and goes to sleep."
     "What memories for mud to have!"
     "What memories for mud to have!"

"What interesting other kinds of sitting-up mud I met!"
"What interesting other kinds of sitting-up mud I met!"
"I loved everything I saw!"
"I loved everything I saw!"
"Good night."
"Good night."
"I will go to heaven now."
"I will go to heaven now."
"I can hardly wait . . ."
"I can hardly wait . . ."
"To find out for certain what my _wampeter_ was . . ."
"To find out for certain what my _wampeter_ was . . ."
"And who was in my _karass_ . . ."
"And who was in my _karass_ . . ."
"And all the good things our _karass_ did for you."
"And all the good things our _karass_ did for you."
"Amen."
"Amen."
Down the Oubliette Goes Frank 100
     But "Papa" didn't die and go to heaven--not then. I asked
Frank how we might best time the announcement of my elevation to
the Presidency. He was no help, had no ideas; he left it all up to
me.
     "I thought you were going to back me up," I complained.
     "As far as anything _technical_ goes." Frank was prim about
it. I wasn't to violate his integrity as a technician; wasn't to
make him exceed the limits of his job.
"I see."
     "However you want to handle people is all right with me.
That's _your_ responsibility."
     This abrupt abdication of Frank from all human affairs
shocked and angered me, and I said to him, meaning to be
satirical, "You mind telling me what, in a purely technical way,
is planned for this day of days?"
     I got a strictly technical reply. "Repair the power plant and
stage an air show."

     "Good! So one of my first triumphs as President will be to
restore electricity to my people."
     Frank didn't see anything funny in that. He gave me a salute.
"I'll try, sir. I'll do my best for you, sir. I can't guarantee
how long it'll be before we get juice back."
     "That's what I want--a juicy country."
     "I'll do my best, sir." Frank saluted me again.
     "And the air show?" I asked. "What's that?"
     I got another wooden reply. "At one o'clock this afternoon,
sir, six planes of the San Lorenzan Air Force will fly past the
palace here and shoot at targets in the water. It's part of the
celebration of the Day of the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy. The
American Ambassador also plans to throw a wreath into the sea."
     So I decided, tentatively, that I would have Frank announce
my apotheosis immediately following the wreath ceremony and the
air show.
     "What do you think of that?" I said to Frank.
     "You're the boss, sir."
     "I think I'd better have a speech ready," I said. "And there
should be some sort of swearing-in, to make it look dignified,
official."
     "You're the boss, sir." Each time he said those words they
seemed to come from farther away, as though Frank were descending
the rungs of a ladder into a deep shaft, while I was obliged to
remain above.
     And I realized with chagrin that my agreeing to be boss had
freed Frank to do what he wanted to do more than anything else, to
do what his father had done: to receive honors and creature
comforts while escaping human responsibilities. He was
accomplishing this by going down a spiritual oubliette.
Like My Predecesors, I Outlaw Bokonon 101
     So I wrote my speech in a round, bare room at the foot of a
tower. There was a table and a chair. And the speech I wrote was
round and bare and sparsely furnished, too.
     It was hopeful. It was humble.

     And I found it impossible not to lean on God. I had never
needed such support before, and so had never believed that such
support was available.
     Now, I found that I had to believe in it--and I did.
     In addition, I would need the help of people. I called for a
list of the guests who were to be at the ceremonies and found that
Julian Castle and his son had not been invited. I sent messengers
to invite them at once, since they knew more about my people than
anyone, with the exception of Bokonon.
     As for Bokonon:
     I pondered asking him to join my government, thus bringing
about a sort of millennium for my people. And I thought of
ordering that the awful hook outside the palace gate be taken down
at once, amidst great rejoicing.
     But then I understood that a millennium would have to offer
something more than a holy man in a position of power, that there
would have to be plenty of good things for all to eat, too, and
nice places to live for all, and good schools and good health and
good times for all, and work for all who wanted it--things Bokonon
and I were in no position to provide.
     So good and evil had to remain separate; good in the jungle,
and evil in the palace. Whatever entertainment there was in that
was about all we had to give the people.
     There was a knock on my door. A servant told me the guests
had begun to arrive.
     So I put my speech in my pocket and I mounted the spiral
staircase in my tower. I arrived at the uppermost battlement of my
castle, and I looked out at my guests, my servants, my cliff, and
my lukewarm sea.
Enemies of Freedom 102
     When I think of all those people on my uppermost battlement,
I think of Bokonon's "hundred-and-nineteenth Calypso," wherein he
invites us to sing along with him:
          "Where's my good old gang done gone?"

          I heard a sad man say.
          I whispered in that sad man's ear,
          "Your gang's done gone away."
     Present were Ambassador Horlick Minton and his lady; H. Lowe
Crosby, the bicycle manufacturer, and his Hazel; Dr. Julian
Castle, humanitarian and philanthropist, and his son Philip,
author and innkeeper; little Newton Hoenikker, the picture
painter, and his musical sister, Mrs. Harrison C. Conners; my
heavenly Mona; Major General Franklin Hoenikker; and twenty
assorted San Lorenzo bureaucrats and military men.
     Dead--almost all dead now.
     As Bokonon tells us, "It is never a mistake to say goodbye."
     There was a buffet on my battlements, a buffet burdened with
native delicacies: roasted warblers in little overcoats made of
their own blue-green feathers; lavender land crabs taken from
their shells, minced, fried in coconut oil, and returned to their
shells; fingerling barracuda stuffed with banana paste; and, on
unleavened, unseasoned cornmeal wafers, bite-sized cubes of boiled
albatross.
     The albatross, I was told, had been shot from the very
bartizan in which the buffet stood. There were two beverages
offered, both un-iced: Pepsi-Cola and native rum. The Pepsi-Cola
was served in plastic Pilseners. The rum was served in coconut
shells. I was unable to identify the sweet bouquet of the rum,
though it somehow reminded me of early adolescence.
     Frank was able to name the bouquet for me. "Acetone."
     "Acetone?"
     "Used in model-airplane cement."
     I did not drink the rum.
     Ambassador Minton did a lot of ambassadorial, gourmand
saluting with his coconut, pretending to love all men and all the
beverages that sustained them. But I did not see him drink. He had
with him, incidentally, a piece of luggage of a sort I had never
seen before. It looked like a French horn case, and proved to
contain the memorial wreath that was to be cast into the sea.
     The only person I saw drink the rum was H. Lowe Crosby, who
plainly had no sense of smell. He was having a good time, drinking
acetone from his coconut, sitting on a cannon, blocking the
touchhole with his big behind. He was looking out to sea through a
huge pair of Japanese binoculars. He was looking at targets
mounted on bobbing floats anchored offshore.
     The targets were cardboard cutouts shaped like men.
     They were to be fired upon and bombed in a demonstration of
might by the six planes of the San Lorenzan Air Force.

     Each target was a caricature of some real person, and the
name of that person was painted on the targets' back and front.
     I asked who the caricaturist was and learned that he was Dr.
Vox Humana, the Christian minister. He was at my elbow.
     "I didn't know you were talented in that direction, too."
     "Oh, yes. When I was a young man, I had a very hard time
deciding what to be."
     "I think the choice you made was the right one."
     "I prayed for guidance from Above."
     "You got it."
     H. Lowe Crosby handed his binoculars to his wife. "There's
old Joe Stalin, closest in, and old Fidel Castro's anchored right
next to him."
     "And there's old Hitler," chuckled Hazel, delighted. "And
there's old Mussolini and some old Jap."
     "And there's old Karl Marx."
     "And there's old Kaiser Bill, spiked hat and all," cooed
Hazel. "I never expected to see _him_ again."
     "And there's old Mao. You see old Mao?"
     "Isn't _he_ gonna get it?" asked Hazel. "Isn't _he_ gonna get
the surprise of his life? This sure is a cute idea."
     "They got practically every enemy that freedom, ever had out
there," H. Lowe Crosby declared.
A Medical Opinion on the 103
Effects of a Writers' Strike
     None of the guests knew yet that I was to be President. None
knew how close to death "Papa" was. Frank gave out the official
word that "Papa" was resting comfortably, that "Papa" sent his
best wishes to all.
     The order of events, as announced by Frank, was that
Ambassador Minton would throw his wreath into the sea, in honor of
the Hundred Martyrs; and then the airplanes would shoot the
targets in the sea; and then he, Frank, would say a few words.
     He did not tell the company that, following his speech, there
would be a speech by me.

     So I was treated as nothing more than a visiting journalist,
and I engaged in harmless _granfalloonery_ here and there.
     "Hello, Mom," I said to Hazel Crosby.
     "Why, if it isn't my boy!" Hazel gave me a perfumed hug, and
she told everybody, "This boy's a Hoosier!"
     The Castles, father and son, stood separate from the rest of
the company. Long unwelcome at "Papa's" palace, they were curious
as to why they had now been invited there.
     Young Castle called me "Scoop." "Good morning, Scoop. What's
new in the word game?"
     "I might ask the same of you," I replied.
     "I'm thinking of calling a general strike of all writers
until mankind finally comes to its senses. Would you support it?"
     "Do writers have a right to strike? That would be like the
police or the firemen walking out."
     "Or the college professors."
     "Or the college professors," I agreed. I shook my head. "No,
I don't think my conscience would let me support a strike like
that. When a man becomes a writer, I think he takes on a sacred
obligation to produce beauty and enlightenment and comfort at top
speed."
     "I just can't help thinking what a real shaking up it would
give people if, all of a sudden, there were no new books, new
plays, new histories, new poems . . ."
     "And how proud would you be when people started dying like
flies?" I demanded.
     "They'd die more like mad dogs, I think--snarling and
snapping at each other and biting their own tails."
     I turned to Castle the elder. "Sir, how does a man die when
he's deprived of the consolations of literature?"
     "In one of two ways," he said, "petrescence of the heart or
atrophy of the nervous system."
     "Neither one very pleasant, I expect," I suggested.
     "No," said Castle the elder. "For the love of God, _both_ of
you, _please_ keep writing!"
Sulfathiazole 104

     My heavenly Mona did not approach me and did not encourage me
with languishing glances to come to her side. She made a hostess
of herself, introducing Angela and little Newt to San Lorenzans.
     As I ponder now the meaning of that girl--recall her
indifference to "Papa's" collapse, to her betrothal to me-- I
vacillate between lofty and cheap appraisals.
     Did she represent the highest form of female spirituality?
     Or was she anesthetized, frigid--a cold fish, in fact, a
dazed addict of the xylophone, the cult of beauty, and _boko-
maru?_
     I shall never know.
     Bokonon tells us:
          A lover's a liar,
          To himself he lies.
          The truthful are loveless,
          Like oysters their eyes!
     So my instructions are clear, I suppose. I am to remember my
Mona as having been sublime.
     "Tell me," I appealed to young Philip Castle on the Day of
the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy, "have you spoken to your friend
and admirer, H. Lowe Crosby, today?"
     "He didn't recognize me with a suit and shoes and necktie
on," young Castle replied. "We've already had a nice talk about
bicycles. We may have another."
     I found that I was no longer amused by Crosby's wanting to
build bicycles in San Lorenzo. As chief executive of the island I
wanted a bicycle factory very much. I developed sudden respect for
what H. Lowe Crosby was and could do.
     "How do you think the people of San Lorenzo would take to
industrialization?" I asked the Castles, father and son.
     "The people of San Lorenzo," the father told me, "are
interested in only three things: fishing, fornication, and
Bokononism."
     "Don't you think they could be interested in progress?"
     "They've seen some of it. There's only one aspect of progress
that really excites them."
     "What's that?"
     "The electric guitar."
     I excused myself and I rejoined the Crosbys.
     Frank Hoenikker was with them, explaining who Bokonon was and
what he was against. "He's against science."
     "How can anybody in his right mind be against science?" asked
Crosby.

     "I'd be dead now if it wasn't for penicillin," said Hazel.
"And so would my mother."
     "How old _is_ your mother?" I inquired.
     "A hundred and six. Isn't that wonderful?"
     "It certainly is," I agreed.
     "And I'd be a widow, too, if it wasn't for the medicine they
gave my husband that time," said Hazel. She had to ask her husband
the name of the medicine. "Honey, what was the name of that stuff
that saved your life that time?"
     "Sulfathiazole."
     And I made the mistake of taking an albatross canape from a
passing tray.
Pain-killer 105
     As it happened--"As it was _supposed_ to happen," Bokonon
would say--albatross meat disagreed with me so violently that I
was ill the moment I'd choked the first piece down. I was
compelled to canter down the stone spiral staircase in search of a
bathroom. I availed myself of one adjacent to "Papa's" suite.
     When I shuffled out, somewhat relieved, I was met by Dr.
Schlichter von Koenigswald, who was bounding from "Papa's"
bedroom. He had a wild look, and he took me by the arms and he
cried, "What is it? What was it he had hanging around his neck?"
     "I beg your pardon?"
     "He took it! Whatever was in that cylinder, 'Papa' took--and
now he's dead."
     I remembered the cylinder "Papa" had hung around his neck,
and I made an obvious guess as to its contents. "Cyanide?"
     "Cyanide? Cyanide turns a man to cement in a second?"
"Cement?"
     "Marble! Iron! I have never seen such a rigid corpse before.
Strike it anywhere and you get a note like a marimba! Come look!"
Von Koenigswald hustled me into "Papa's" bedroom.
     In bed, in the golden dinghy, was a hideous thing to see.
"Papa" was dead, but his was not a corpse to which one could say,
"At rest at last."

     'Papa's" head was bent back as far as it would go. His weight
rested on the crown of his head and the soles of his feet, with
the rest of his body forming a bridge whose arch thrust toward the
ceiling. He was shaped like an andiron.
     That he had died of the contents of the cylinder around his
neck was obvious. One hand held the cylinder and the cylinder was
uncapped. And the thumb and index finger of the other hand, as
though having just released a little pinch of something, were
stuck between his teeth.
     Dr. von Koenigswald slipped the tholepin of an oarlock from
its socket in the gunwale of the gilded dinghy. He tapped "Papa"
on his belly with the steel oarlock, and "Papa" really did make a
sound like a marimba.
     And "Papa's" lips and nostrils and eyeballs were glazed with
a blue-white frost.
     Such a syndrome is no novelty now, God knows. But it
certainly was then. "Papa" Monzano was the first man in history to
die of _ice-nine_.
     I record that fact for whatever it may be worth. "Write it
all down," Bokonon tells us. He is really telling us, of course,
how futile it is to write or read histories. "Without accurate
records of the past, how can men and women be expected to avoid
making serious mistakes in the future?" he asks ironically.
     So, again: "Papa" Monzano was the first man in history to die
of _ice-nine_.
What Bokononists Say 106
When They Commit Suicide
     Dr. von Koenigswald, the humanitarian with the terrible
deficit of Auschwitz in his kindliness account, was the second to
die of _ice-nine_.
     He was talking about rigor mortis, a subject I had
introduced.
     "Rigor mortis does not set in in seconds," he declared. "I
turned my back to 'Papa' for just a moment. He was raving . . ."
     "What about?" I asked.

     "Pain, ice, Mona--everything. And then 'Papa' said, 'Now I
will destroy the whole world.'"
     "What did he mean by that?"
     "It's what Bokononists always say when they are about to
commit suicide." Von Koenigswald went to a basin of water, meaning
to wash his hands. "When I turned to look at him," he told me, his
hands poised over the water, "he was dead--as hard as a statue,
just as you see him. I brushed my fingers over his lips. They
looked so peculiar."
     He put his hands into the water. "What chemical could
possibly . . ." The question trailed off.
     Von Koenigswald raised his hands, and the water in the basin
came with them. It was no longer water, but a hemisphere of _ice-
nine_.
     Von Koenigswald touched the tip of his tongue to the blue-
white mystery.
     Frost bloomed on his lips. He froze solid, tottered, and
crashed.
     The blue-white hemisphere shattered. Chunks skittered over
the floor.
     I went to the door and bawled for help.
     Soldiers and servants came running.
     I ordered them to bring Frank and Newt and Angela to "Papa's"
room at once.
     At last I had seen _ice-nine!_
Feast Your Eyes! 101
     I let the three children of Dr. Felix Hoenikker into "Papa"
Monzano's bedroom. I closed the door and put my back to it. My
mood was bitter and grand. I knew _ice-nine_ for what it was. I
had seen it often in my dreams.
     There could be no doubt that Frank had given "Papa" _ice-
nine_. And it seemed certain that if _ice-nine_ were Frank's to
give, then it was Angela's and little Newt's to give, too.
     So I snarled at all three, calling them to account for
monstrous criminality. I told them that the jig was up, that I
knew about them and _ice-nine_. I tried to alarm them about _ice-

nine's_ being a means to ending life on earth. I was so impressive
that they never thought to ask how I knew about _ice-nine_.
     "Feast your eyes!" I said.
     Well, as Bokonon tells us: "God never wrote a good play in
His Life." The scene in "Papa's" room did not lack for spectacular
issues and props, and my opening speech was the right one.
     But the first reply from a Hoenikker destroyed all
magnificence.
     Little Newt threw up.
Frank Tells Us What to Do 108
     And then we all wanted to throw up.
     Newt certainly did what was called for.
     "I couldn't agree more," I told Newt. And I snarled at Angela
and Frank, "Now that we've got Newt's opinion, I'd like to hear
what you two have to say."
     "Uck," said Angela, cringing, her tongue out. She was the
color of putty.
     "Are those your sentiments, too?" I asked Frank. "'Uck?'
General, is that what you say?"
     Frank had his teeth bared, and his teeth were clenched, and
he was breathing shallowly and whistlingly between them.
     "Like the dog," murmured little Newt, looking down at Von
Koenigswald.
"What dog?"
     Newt whispered his answer, and there was scarcely any wind
behind the whisper. But such were the acoustics of the stonewalled
room that we all heard the whisper as clearly as we would have
heard the chiming of a crystal bell.
     "Christmas Eve, when Father died."
     Newt was talking to himself. And, when I asked him to tell me
about the dog on the night his father died, he looked up at me as
though I had intruded on a dream. He found me irrelevant.
     His brother and sister, however, belonged in the dream. And
he talked to his brother in that nightmare; told Frank, "You gave
it to him.

     "That's how you got this fancy job, isn't it?" Newt asked
Frank wonderingly. "What did you tell him--that you had something
better than the hydrogen bomb?"
     Frank didn't acknowledge the question. He was looking around
the room intently, taking it all in. He unclenched his teeth, and
he made them click rapidly, blinking his eyes with every click.
His color was coming back. This is what he said.
     "Listen, we've got to clean up this mess."
Frank Defends Himself 109
     "General," I told Frank, "that must be one of the most cogent
statements made by a major general this year. As my technical
advisor, how do you recommend that _we_, as you put it so well,
'clean up this mess'?"
     Frank gave me a straight answer. He snapped his fingers. I
could see him dissociating himself from the causes of the mess;
identifying himself, with growing pride and energy, with the
purifiers, the world-savers, the cleaners-up.
     "Brooms, dustpans, blowtorch, hot plate, buckets," he
commanded, snapping, snapping, snapping his fingers.
     "You propose applying a blowtorch to the bodies?" I asked.
     Frank was so charged with technical thinking now that he was
practically tap dancing to the music of his fingers. "We'll sweep
up the big pieces on the floor, melt them in a bucket on a hot
plate. Then we'll go over every square inch of floor with a
blowtorch, in case there are any microscopic crystals. What we'll
do with the bodies--and the bed . . ." He had to think some more.
     "A funeral pyre!" he cried, really pleased with himself.
"I'll have a great big funeral pyre built out by the hook, and
we'll have the bodies and the bed carried out and thrown on."
     He started to leave, to order the pyre built and to get the
things we needed in order to clean up the room.
     Angela stopped him. "How _could_ you?" she wanted to know.
     Frank gave her a glassy smile. "Everything's going to be all
right."
     "How _could_ you give it to a man like 'Papa' Monzano?"
Angela asked him.

     "Let's clean up the mess first; then we can talk."
     Angela had him by the arms, and she wouldn't let him go. "How
_could_ you!" She shook him.
     Frank pried his sister's hands from himself. His glassy smile
went away and he turned sneeringly nasty for a moment--a moment in
which he told her with all possible contempt, "I bought myself a
job, just the way you bought yourself a tomcat husband, just the
way Newt bought himself a week on Cape Cod with a Russian midget!"
     The glassy smile returned.
     Frank left; and he slammed the door.
The Fourteenth Book 110
     "Sometimes the _pool-pah_," Bokonon tells us, "exceeds the
power of humans to comment." Bokonon translates _pool-pah_ at one
point in _The Books of Bokonon_ as "shit storm" and at another
point as "wrath of God."
     From what Frank had said before he slammed the door, I
gathered that the Republic of San Lorenzo and the three Hoenikkers
weren't the only ones who had _ice-nine_. Apparently the United
States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics had
it, too. The United States had obtained it through Angela's
husband, whose plant in Indianapolis was understandably surrounded
by electrified fences and homicidal German shepherds. And Soviet
Russia had come by it through Newt's little Zinka, that winsome
troll of Ukrainian ballet.
     I was without comment.
     I bowed my head and closed my eyes; and I awaited Frank's
return with the humble tools it would take to clean up one
bedroom--one bedroom out of all the bedrooms in the world, a
bedroom infested with _ice-nine_.
     Somewhere, in the violet, velvet oblivion, I heard Angela say
something to me. It wasn't in her own defense. It was in defense
of little Newt. "Newt didn't give it to her. She stole it."
     I found the explanation uninteresting.
     "What hope can there be for mankind," I thought, "when there
are such men as Felix Hoenikker to give such playthings as _ice-

nine_ to such short-sighted children as almost all men and women
are?"
     And I remembered _The Fourteenth Book of Bokonon_, which I
had read in its entirety the night before. _The Fourteenth Book_
is entitled, "What Can a Thoughtful Man Hope for Mankind on Earth,
Given the Experience of the Past Million Years?"
     It doesn't take long to read _The Fourteenth Book_. It
consists of one word and a period.
     This is it:
     "Nothing."
Time Out 111
     Frank came back with brooms and dustpans, a blowtorch, and a
kerosene hot plate, and a good old bucket and rubber gloves.
     We put on the gloves in order not to contaminate our hands
with _ice-nine_. Frank set the hot plate on the heavenly Mona's
xylophone and put the honest old bucket on top of that.
     And we picked up the bigger chunks of _ice-nine_ from the
floor; and we dropped them into that humble bucket; and they
melted. They became good old, sweet old, honest old water.
     Angela and I swept the floor, and little Newt looked under
furniture for bits of _ice-nine_ we might have missed. And Frank
followed our sweeping with the purifying flame of the torch.
     The brainless serenity of charwomen and janitors working late
at night came over us. In a messy world we were at least making
our little corner clean.
     And I heard myself asking Newt and Angela and Frank in
conversational tones to tell me about the Christmas Eve on which
the old-man died, to tell me about the dog.
     And, childishly sure that they were making everything all
right by cleaning up, the Hoenikkers told me the tale.
     The tale went like this:
     On that fateful Christmas Eve, Angela went into the village
for Christmas tree lights, and Newt and Frank went for a walk on
the lonely winter beach, where they met a black Labrador
retriever. The dog was friendly, as all Labrador retrievers are,
and he followed Frank and little Newt home.

     Felix Hoenikker died--died in his white wicker chair looking
out at the sea--while his chldren were gone. All day the old man
had been teasing his children with hints about _ice-nine_, showing
it to them in a little bottle on whose label he had drawn a skull
and crossbones, and on whose label he had written: "Danger! _Ice-
nine!_ Keep away from moisture!"
     All day long the old man had been nagging his children with
words like these, merry in tone: "Come on now, stretch your minds
a little. I've told you that its melting point is a hundred
fourteen-point-four degrees Fahrenheit, and I've told you that
it's composed of nothing but hydrogen and oxygen. What could the
explanation be? Think a little! Don't be afraid of straining your
brains. They won't break."
     "He was always telling us to stretch our brains," said Frank,
recalling olden times.
     "I gave up trying to stretch my brain when I-don't-know-how-
old-I-was," Angela confessed, leaning on her broom. "I couldn't
even listen to him when he talked about science. I'd just nod and
pretend I was trying to stretch my brain, but that poor brain, as
far as science went, didn't have any more stretch than an old
garter belt."
     Apparently, before he sat down in his wicker chair and died,
the old man played puddly games in the kitchen with water and pots
and pans and _ice-nine_. He must have been converting water to
_ice-nine_ and back to water again, for every pot and pan was out
on the kitchen countertops. A meat thermometer was out, too, so
the old man must have been taking the temperature of things.
     The old man meant to take only a brief time out in his chair,
for he left quite a mess in the kitchen. Part of the disorder was
a saucepan filled with solid _ice-nine_. He no doubt meant to melt
it up, to reduce the world's supply of the blue-white stuff to a
splinter in a bottle again--after a brief time out.
     But, as Bokonon tells us, "Any man can call time out, but no
man can say how long the time out will be."
Newt's Mother's Reticule 112

     "I should have know he was dead the minute I came in," said
Angela, leaning on her broom again. "That wicker chair, it wasn't
making a sound. It always talked, creaked away, when Father was in
it--even when he was asleep."
     But Angela had assumed that her father was sleeping, and she
went on to decorate the Christmas tree.
     Newt and Frank came in with the Labrador retriever. They went
out into the kitchen to find something for the dog to eat. They
found the old man's puddles.
     There was water on the floor, and little Newt took a dishrag
and wiped it up. He tossed the sopping dishrag onto the counter.
     As it happened, the dishrag fell into the pan containing
_ice-nine_.
     Frank thought the pan contained some sort of cake frosting,
and he held it down to Newt, to show Newt what his carelessness
with the dishrag had done.
     Newt peeled the dishrag from the surface and found that the
dishrag had a peculiar, metallic, snaky quality, as though it were
made of finely-woven gold mesh.
     "The reason I say 'gold mesh,'" said little Newt, there in
"Papa's" bedroom, "is that it reminded me right away of Mother's
reticule, of how the reticule felt."
     Angela explained sentimentally that when a child, Newt had
treasured his mother's gold reticule. I gathered that it was a
little evening bag.
     "It felt so funny to me, like nothing else I'd ever touched,"
and Newt, investigating his old fondness for the reticule. "I
wonder whatever happened to it."
     "I wonder what happened to a _lot_ of things," said Angela.
The question echoed back through time--woeful, lost.
     What happened to the dishrag that felt like a reticule, at
any rate, was that Newt held it out to the dog, and the dog licked
it. And the dog froze stiff.
     Newt went to tell his father about the stiff dog and found
out that his father was stiff, too.
History 113

     Our work in "Papa's" bedroom was done at last.
     But the bodies still had to be carried to the funeral pyre.
We decided that this should be done with pomp, that we should put
it off until the ceremonies in honor of the Hundred Martyrs to
Democracy were over.
     The last thing we did was stand Von Koenigswald on his feet
in order to decontaminate the place where he had been lying. And
then we hid him, standing up, in "Papa's" clothes closet.
     I'm not quite sure why we hid him. I think it must have been
to simplify the tableau.
     As for Newt's and Angela's and Frank's tale of how they
divided up the world's supply of _ice-nine_ on Christmas Eve--it
petered out when they got to details of the crime itself. The
Hoenikkers couldn't remember that anyone said anything to justify
their taking _ice-nine_ as personal property. They talked about
what _ice-nine_ was, recalling the old man's brain-stretchers, but
there was no talk of morals.
     "Who did the dividing?" I inquired.
     So thoroughly had the three Hoenikkers obliterated their
memories of the incident that it was difficult for them to give me
even that fundamental detail.
     "It wasn't Newt," said Angela at last. "I'm sure of ihat."
     "It was either you or me," mused Frank, thinking hard.
     "You got the three Mason jars off the kitchen shelf," said
Angela. "It wasn't until the next day that we got the three little
Thermos jugs."
     "That's right," Frank agreed. "And then you took an ice pick
and chipped up the _ice-nine_ in the saucepan."
     "That's right," said Angela. "I did. And then somebody
brought tweezers from the bathroom."
     Newt raised his little hand. "I did."
     Angela and Newt were amazed, remembering how enterprising
little Newt had been.
     "I was the one who picked up the chips and put them in the
Mason jars," Newt recounted. He didn't bother to hide the swagger
he must have felt.
     "What did you people do with the dog?" I asked limply.
     "We put him in the oven," Frank told me. "It was the only
thing to do."
     "History!" writes Bokonon. "Read it and weep!"

When I Felt the Bullet Enter My Heart 114
     So I once again mounted the spiral staircase in my tower;
once again arrived at the uppermost battlement of my castle; and
once more looked out at my guests, my servants, my cliff, and my
lukewarm sea.
     The Hoenikkers were with me. We had locked "Papa's" door, and
had spread the word among the household staff that "Papa" was
feeling much better.
     Soldiers were now building a funeral pyre out by the hook.
They did not know what the pyre was for.
     There were many, many secrets that day.
     Busy, busy, busy.
     I supposed that the ceremonies might as well begin, and I
told Frank to suggest to Ambassador Horlick Minton that he deliver
his speech.
     Ambassador Minton went to the seaward parapet with his
memorial wreath still in its case. And he delivered an amazing
speech in honor of the Hundred Martyrs to Democracy. He dignified
the dead, their country, and the life that was over for them by
saying the "Hundred Martyrs to Democracy" in island dialect. That
fragment of dialect was graceful and easy on his lips.
     The rest of his speech was in American English. He had a
written speech with him--fustian and bombast, I imagine. But, when
he found he was going to speak to so few, and to fellow Americans
for the most part, he put the formal speech away.
     A light sea wind ruffled his thinning hair. "I am about to do
a very un-ambassadorial thing," he declared. "I am about to tell
you what I really feel."
     Perhaps Minton had inhaled too much acetone, or perhaps he
had an inkling of what was about to happen to everybody but me. At
any rate, it was a strikingly Bokononist speech he gave.
     "We are gathered here, friends," he said, "to honor _lo Hoon-
yera Mora-toorz tut Zamoo-cratz-ya_, children dead, all dead, all
murdered in war. It is customary on days like this to call such
lost children men. I am unable to call them men for this simple
reason: that in the same war in which _lo Hoon-yera Mora-toorz tut
Zamoo-cratz-ya_ died, my own son died.
     "My soul insists that I mourn not a man but a child.
     "I do not say that children at war do not die like men, if
they have to die. To their everlasting honor and our everlasting
shame they _do_ die like men, thus making possible the manly
jubilation of patriotic holidays.
     "But they are murdered children all the same.

     "And I propose to you that if we are to pay our sincere
respects to the hundred lost children of San Lorenzo, that we
might best spend the day despising what killed them; which is to
say, the stupidity and viciousness of all mankind.
     "Perhaps, when we remember wars, we should take off our
clothes and paint ourselves blue and go on all fours all day long
and grunt like pigs. That would surely be more appropriate than
noble oratory and shows of flags and well-oiled guns.
     "I do not mean to be ungrateful for the fine, martial show we
are about to see--and a thrilling show it really will be . . ."
     He looked each of us in the eye, and then he commented very
softly, throwing it away, "And hooray say I for thrilling shows."
     We had to strain our ears to hear what Minton said next.
     "But if today is really in honor of a hundred children
murdered in war," he said, "is today a day for a thrilling show?
     "The answer is yes, on one condition: that we, the
celebrants, are working consciously and tirelessly to reduce the
stupidity and viciousness of ourselves and of all mankind."
     He unsnapped the catches on his wreath case.
     "See what I have brought?" he asked us.
     He opened the case and showed us the scarlet lining and the
golden wreath. The wreath was made of wire and artificial laurel
leaves, and the whole was sprayed with radiator paint.
     The wreath was spanned by a cream-colored silk ribbon on
which was printed, "PRO PATRIA."
     Minton now recited a poem from Edgar Lee Masters' the _Spoon
River Anthology_, a poem that must have been incomprehensible to
the San Lorenzans in the audience--and to H. Lowe Crosby and his
Hazel, too, for that matter, and to Angela and Frank.
Ridge.
I was the first fruits of the battle of Missionary
When I felt the bullet enter my heart
I wished I had staid at home and gone to jail
For stealing the hogs of Curl Trenary,
Instead of running away and joining the army.
Rather a thousand times the county jail
Than to lie under this marble figure with wings,
And this granite pedestal
Bearing the words, "_Pro Patria_."
What do they mean, anyway?
     "What do they mean, anyway?" echoed Ambassador Horlick
Minton. "They mean, 'For one's country.'" And he threw away
another line. "Any country at all," he murmured.

     "This wreath I bring is a gift from the people of one country
to the people of another. Never mind which countries. Think of
people . . .
     "And children murdered in war.
     "And any country at all.
     "Think of peace.
     "Think of brotherly love.
     "Think of plenty.
     "Think of what paradise, this world would be if men were kind
and wise.
     "As stupid and vicious as men are, this is a lovely day,"
said Ambassador Horlick Minton. "I, in my own heart and as a
representative of the peace-loving people of the United States of
America, pity _lo Hoon-yera Mora-toorz tut Za-moo-cratz-ya_ for
being dead on this fine day."
     And he sailed the wreath off the parapet.
     There was a hum in the air. The six planes of the San
Lorenzan Air Force were coming, skimming my lukewarm sea. They
were going to shoot the effigies of what H. Lowe Crosby had called
"practically every enemy that freedom ever had."
As It Happened 115
     We went to the seaward parapet to see the show. The planes
were no larger than grains of black pepper. We were able to spot
them because one, as it happened, was trailing smoke.
     We supposed that the smoke was part of the show.
     I stood next to H. Lowe Crosby, who, as it happened, was
alternately eating albatross and drinking native rum. He exhaled
fumes of model airplane cement between lips glistening with
albatross fat. My recent nausea returned.
     I withdrew to the landward parapet alone, gulping air. There
were sixty feet of old stone pavement between me and all the rest.
     I saw that the planes would be coming in low, below the
footings of the castle, and that I would miss the show. But nausea
made me incurious. I turned my head in the direction of their now
snarling approach. Just as their guns began to hammer, one plane,

the one that had been trailing smoke, suddenly appeared, belly up,
in flames.
     It dropped from my line of sight again and crashed at once
into the cliff below the castle. Its bombs and fuel exploded.
     The surviving planes went booming on, their racket thinning
down to a mosquito hum.
     And then there was the sound of a rockslide--and one great
tower of "Papa's" castle, undermined, crashed down to the sea.
     The people on the seaward parapet looked in astonishment at
the empty socket where the tower had stood. Then I could hear
rockslides of all sizes in a conversation that was almost
orchestral.
     The conversation went very fast, and new voices entered in.
They were the voices of the castle's timbers lamenting that their
burdens were becoming too great.
     And then a crack crossed the battlement like lightning, ten
feet from my curling toes.
     It separated me from my fellow men.
     The castle groaned and wept aloud.
     The others comprehended their peril. They, along with tons of
masonry, were about to lurch out and down. Although the crack was
only a foot wide, people began to cross it with heroic leaps.
     Only my complacent Mona crossed the crack with a simple step.
     The crack gnashed shut; opened wider, leeringly. Still
trapped on the canted deathtrap were H. Lowe Crosby and his Hazel
and Ambassador Horlick Minton and his Claire.
     Philip Castle and Frank and I reached across the abyss to
haul the Crosbys to safety. Our arms were now extended imploringly
to the Mintons.
     Their expressions were bland. I can only guess what was going
through their minds. My guess is that they were thinking of
dignity, of emotional proportion above all else.
     Panic was not their style. I doubt that suicide was their
style either. But their good manners killed them, for the doomed
crescent of castle now moved away from us like an ocean liner
moving away from a dock.
     The image of a voyage seems to have occurred to the voyaging
Mintons, too, for they waved to us with wan amiability.
     They held hands.
     They faced the sea.
     Out they went; then down they went in a cataclysmic rush,
were gone!

The Grand Ah-whoom 116
     The ragged rim of oblivion was now inches from my curling
toes. I looked down. My lukewarm sea had swallowed all. A lazy
curtain of dust was wafting out to sea, the only trace of all that
fell.
     The palace, its massive, seaward mask now gone, greeted the
north with a leper's smile, snaggle-toothed and bristly. The
bristles were the splintered ends of timbers. Immediately below me
a large chamber had been laid open. The floor of that chamber,
unsupported, stabbed out into space like a diving platform.
     I dreamed for a moment of dropping to the platform, of
springing up from it in a breath-taking swan dive, of folding my
arms, of knifing downward into a blood-warm eternity with never a
splash.
     I was recalled from this dream by the cry of a darting bird
above me. It seemed to be asking me what had happened. "Pootee-
phweet?" it asked.
     We all looked up at the bird, and then at one another. We
backed away from the abyss, full of dread. And, when I stepped off
the paving stone that had supported me, the stone began to rock.
It was no more stable than a teeter-totter. And it tottered now
over the diving platform.
     Down it crashed onto the platform, made the platform a chute.
And down the chute came the furnishings still remaining in the
room below.
     A xylophone shot out first, scampering fast on its tiny
wheels. Out came a bedside table in a crazy race with a bounding
blowtorch. Out came chairs in hot pursuit.
     And somewhere in that room below, out of sight, something
mightily reluctant to move was beginning to move.
     Down the chute it crept. At last it showed its golden bow. It
was the boat in which dead "Papa" lay.
     It reached the end of the chute. Its bow nodded. Down it
tipped. Down it fell, end over end.
     "Papa" was thrown clear, and he fell separately.
     I closed my eyes.
     There was a sound like that of the gentle closing of a portal
as big as the sky, the great door of heaven being closed softly.
It was a grand AH-WHOOM.

     I opened my eyes--and all the sea was _ice-nine_. The moist
green earth was a blue-white pearl. The sky darkened. _Borasisi_,
the sun, became a sickly yellow ball, tiny and cruel.
     The sky was filled with worms. The worms were tornadoes.
Sanctuary 117
     I looked up at the sky where the bird had been. An enormous
worm with a violet mouth was directly overhead. It buzzed like
bees. It swayed. With obscene peristalsis, it ingested air.
     We humans separated; fled my shattered battlements tumbled
down staircases on the landward side.
     Only H. Lowe Crosby and his Hazel cried out. "American!
American!" they cried, as though tornadoes were interested in the
_granfalloons_ to which their victims belonged.
     I could not see the Crosbys. They had descended by another
staircase. Their cries and the sounds of others, panting and
running, came gabbling to me through a corridor of the castle. My
only companion was my heavenly Mona, who had followed noiselessly.
     When I hesitated, she slipped past me and opened the door to
the anteroom of "Papa's" suite. The walls and roof of the anteroom
were gone. But the stone floor remained. And in its center was the
manhole cover of the oubliette. Under the wormy sky, in the
flickering violet light from the mouths of tornadoes that wished
to eat us, I lifted the cover.
     The esophagus of the dungeon was fitted with iron rungs. I
replaced the manhole cover from within. Down those iron rungs we
went.
     And at the foot of the ladder we found a state secret. "Papa"
Monzano had caused a cozy bomb shelter to be constructed there. It
had a ventilation shaft, with a fan driven by a stationary
bicycle. A tank of water was recessed in one wall. The water was
sweet and wet, as yet untainted by _ice-nine_. And there was a
chemical toilet, and a short-wave radio, and a Sears, Roebuck
catalogue; and there were cases of delicacies, and liquor, and
candles; and there were bound copies of the _National Geographic_
going back twenty years.
     And there was a set of _The Books of Bokonon_.

     And there were twin beds.
     I lighted a candle. I opened a can of campbell's chicken
gumbo soup and I put it on a Sterno stove. And I poured two
glasses of Virgin Islands rum.
     Mona sat on one bed. I sat down on the other. "I am about to
say something that must have been said by men to women several
times before," I informed her. "However, I don't believe that
these words have ever carried quite the freight they carry now."
     "Oh?"
     I spread my hands. "Here we are."
The Iron Maiden and the Oubliette 118
     _The Sixth Book of The Books of Bokonon_ is devoted to pain,
in particular to tortures inflicted by men on men. "If I am ever
put to death on the hook," Bokonon warns us, "expect a very human
performance."
     Then he speaks of the rack and the peddiwinkus and the iron
maiden and the _veglia_ and the oubliette.
          In any case, there's bound to be much crying.
          But the oubliette alone will let you think while dying.
     And so it was in Mona's and my rock womb. At least we could
think. And one thing I thought was that the creature comforts of
the dungeon did nothing to mitigate the basic fact of oubliation.
     During our first day and night underground, tornadoes rattled
our manhole cover many times an hour. Each time the pressure in
our hole would drop suddenly, and our ears would pop and our heads
would ring.
     As for the radio--there was crackling, fizzing static and
that was all. From one end of the short-wave band to the other not
one word, not one telegrapher's beep, did I hear. If life still
existed here and there, it did not broadcast.
     Nor does life broadcast to this day.
     This I assumed: tornadoes, strewing the poisonous blue-white
frost of _ice-nine_ everywhere, tore everyone and everything above

ground to pieces. Anything that still lived would die soon enough
of thirst--or hunger--or rage--or apathy.
     I turned to _The Books of Bokonon_, still sufficiently
unfamiliar with them to believe that they contained spiritual
comfort somewhere. I passed quickly over the warning on the title
page of _The First Book_:
     "Don't be a fool! Close this book at once! It is nothing but
_foma!_"
     _Foma_, of course, are lies.
     And then I read this:
     In the beginning, God created the earth, and he looked upon
it in His cosmic loneliness.
     And God said, "Let Us make living creatures out of mud, so
the mud can see what We have done." And God created every living
creature that now moveth, and one was man. Mud as man alone could
speak. God leaned close as mud as man sat up, looked around, and
spoke. Man blinked. "What is the _purpose_ of all this?" he asked
politely.
     "Everything must have a purpose?" asked God.
     "Certainly," said man.
     "Then I leave it to you to think of one for all this," said
God.
     And He went away.
     I thought this was trash.
     "Of course it's trash!" says Bokonon.
     And I turned to my heavenly Mona for comforting secrets a
good deal more profound.
     I was able, while mooning at her across the space that
separated our beds, to imagine that behind her marvelous eyes
lurked mysteries as old as Eve.
     I will not go into the sordid sex episode that followed.
Suffice it to say that I was both repulsive and repulsed.
     The girl was not interested in reproduction--hated the idea.
Before the tussle was over, I was given full credit by her, and by
myself, too, for having invented the whole bizarre, grunting,
sweating enterprise by which new human beings were made.
     Returning to my own bed, gnashing my teeth, I supposed that
she honestly had no idea what love-making was all about. But then

she said to me, gently, "It would be very sad to have a little
baby now. Don't you agree?"
     "Yes," I agreed murkily.
     "Well, that's the way little babies are made, in case you
didn't know."
Mona Thanks Me 119
     "Today I will be a Bulgarian Minister of Education," Bokonon
tells us. "Tomorrow I will be Helen of Troy." His meaning is
crystal clear: Each one of us has to be what he or she is. And,
down in the oubliette, that was mainly what I thought--with the
help of _The Books of Bokonon_.
     Bokonon invited me to sing along with him:
          We do, doodley do, doodley do, doodley do,
          What we must, muddily must, muddily must, muddily must;
          Muddily do, muddily do, muddily do, muddily do,
          Until we bust, bodily bust, bodily bust, bodily bust.
     I made up a tune to go with that and I whistled it under my
breath as I drove the bicycle that drove the fan that gave us air,
good old air.
     "Man breathes in oxygen and exhales carbon dioxide," I called
to Mona.
     "What?"
     "Science."
     "Oh."
     "One of the secrets of life man was a long time
understanding: Animals breathe in what animals breathe out, and
vice versa."
     "I didn't know."
     "You know now."
     "Thank you."
     "You're welcome."

     When I'd bicycled our atmosphere to sweetness and freshness,
I dismounted and climbed the iron rungs to see what the weather
was like above. I did that several times a day. On that day, the
fourth day, I perceived through the narrow crescent of the lifted
manhole cover that the weather had become somewhat stabilized.
     The stability was of a wildly dynamic sort, for the tornadoes
were as numerous as ever, and tornadoes remain numerous to this
day. But their mouths no longer gobbled and gnashed at the earth.
The mouths in all directions were discreetly withdrawn to an
altitude of perhaps a half of a mile. And their altitude varied so
little from moment to moment that San Lorenzo might have been
protected by a tornado-proof sheet of glass.
     We let three more days go by, making certain that the
tornadoes had become as sincerely reticent as they seemed. And
then we filled canteens from our water tank and we went above.
     The air was dry and hot and deathly still.
     I had heard it suggested one time that the seasons in the
temperate zone ought to be six rather than four in number: summer,
autumn, locking, winter, unlocking, and spring. And I remembered
that as I straightened up beside our manhole, and stared and
listened and sniffed.
     There were no smells. There was no movement. Every step I
took made a gravelly squeak in blue-white frost. And every squeak
was echoed loudly. The season of locking was over. The earth was
locked up tight.
     It was winter, now and forever.
     I helped my Mona out of our hole. I warned her to keep her
hands away from the blue-white frost and to keep her hands away
from her mouth, too. "Death has never been quite so easy to come
by," I told her. "All you have to do is touch the ground and then
your lips and you're done for."
     She shook her head and sighed. "A very bad mother."
     "What?"
     "Mother Earth--she isn't a very good mother any more."
     "Hello? Hello?" I called through the palace ruins. The
awesome winds had torn canyons through that great stone pile. Mona
and I made a half-hearted search for survivors--half-hearted
because we could sense no life. Not even a nibbling, twinkle-nosed
rat had survived.
     The arch of the palace gate was the only man-made form
untouched. Mona and I went to it. Written at its base in white
paint was a Bokononist "Calypso." The lettering was neat. It was
new. It was proof that someone else had survived the winds.
     The "Calypso" was this:
          Someday, someday, this crazy world will have to end,

lend. nod.
And our God will take things back that He to us did
And if, on that sad day, you want to scold our God,
Why go right ahead and scold Him. He'll just smile and
To Whom It May Concern 120
     I recalled an advertisement for a set of children's books
called _The Book of Knowledge_. In that ad, a trusting boy and
girl looked up at their father. "Daddy," one asked, "what makes
the sky blue?" The answer, presumably, could be found in _The Book
of Knowledge_.
     If I had had my daddy beside me as Mona and I walked down the
road from the palace, I would have had plenty of questions to ask
as I clung to his hand. "Daddy, why are all the trees broken?
Daddy, why are all the birds dead? Daddy, what makes the sky so
sick and wormy? Daddy, what makes the sea so hard and still?"
     It occurred to me that I was better qualified to answer those
tough questions than any other human being, provided there were
any other human beings alive. In case anyone was interested, I
knew what had gone wrong-- where and how.
So what?
     I wondered where the dead could be. Mona and I ventured more
than a mile from our oubliette without seeing one dead human
being.
     I wasn't half so curious about the living, probably because I
sensed accurately that I would first have to contemplate a lot of
dead. I saw no columns of smoke from possible campfires; but they
would have been hard to see against an horizon of worms.
     One thing did catch my eye: a lavender corona about the queer
plug that was the peak on the hump of Mount McCabe. It seemed to
be calling me, and I had a silly, cinematic notion of climbing
that peak with Mona. But what would it mean?
     We were walking into the wrinkles now at the foot of Mount
McCabe. And Mona, as though aimlessly, left my side, left the
road, and climbed one of the wrinkles. I followed.

     I joined her at the top of the ridge. She was looking down
raptly into a broad, natural bowl. She was not crying.
     She might well have cried.
     In that bowl were thousands upon thousands of dead. On the
lips of each decedent was the blue-white frost of _ice-nine_.
     Since the corpses were not scattered or tumbled about, it was
clear that they had been assembled since the withdrawal of the
frightful winds. And, since each corpse had its finger in or near
its mouth, I understood that each person had delivered himself to
this melancholy place and then poisoned himself with _ice-nine_.
     There were men, women,, and children, too, many in the
attitudes of _boko-maru_. All faced the center of the bowl, as
though they were spectators in an amphitheater.
     Mona and I looked at the focus of all those frosted eyes,
looked at the center of the bowl. There was a round clearing
there, a place in which one orator might have stood.
     Mona and I approached the clearing gingerly, avoiding the
morbid statuary. We found a boulder in it. And under the boulder
was a penciled note which said:
     To whom it may concern: These people around you are almost
all of the survivors on San Lorenzo of the winds that followed the
freezing of the sea. These people made a captive of the spurious
holy man named Bokonon. They brought him here, placed him at their
center, and commanded him to tell them exactly what God Almighty
was up to and what they should now do. The mountebank told them
that God was surely trying to kill them, possible because He was
through with them, and that they should have the good manners to
die. This, as you can see, they did.
     The note was signed by Bokonon.
I Am Slow to Answer 121
     "What a cynic!" I gasped. I looked up from the note and gazed
around the death-filled bowl. "Is _he_ here somewhere?"

     "I do not see him," said Mona mildly. She wasn't depressed or
angry. In fact, she seemed to verge on laughter. "He always said
he would never take his own advice, because he knew it was
worthless."
     "He'd _better_ be here!" I said bitterly. "Think of the gall
of the man, advising all these people to kill themselves!"
     Now Mona did laugh. I had never heard her laugh. Her laugh
was startlingly deep and raw.
     "This strikes you as _funny?_"
     She raised her arms lazily. "It's all so simple, that's all.
It solves so much for so many, so simply."
     And she went strolling up among the petrified thousands,
still laughing. She paused about midway up the slope and faced me.
She called down to me, "Would you wish any of these alive again,
if you could? Answer me quickly.
     "Not quick enough with your answer," she called playfully,
after half a minute had passed. And, still laughing a little, she
touched her finger to the ground, straightened up, and touched the
finger to her lips and died.
     Did I weep? They say I did. H. Lowe Crosby and his Hazel and
little Newton Hoenikker came upon me as I stumbled down the road.
They were in Bolivar's one taxicab, which had been spared by the
storm. They tell me I was crying. Hazel cried, too, cried for joy
that I was alive.
     They coaxed me into the cab.
     Hazel put her arm around me. "You're with your mom, now.
Don't you worry about a thing."
     I let my mind go blank. I closed my eyes. It was with deep,
idiotic relief that I leaned on that fleshy, humid, barn-yard
fool.
The Swiss Family Robinson 122
     They took me to what was left of Franklin Hoenikker's house
at the head of the waterfall. What remained was the cave under the
waterfall, which had become a sort of igloo under a translucent,
blue-white dome of _ice-nine_.

     The ménage consisted of Frank, little Newt, and the Crosbys.
They had survived in a dungeon in the palace, one far shallower
and more unpleasant than the oubliette. They had moved out the
moment the winds had abated, while Mona and I had stayed
underground for another three days.
     As it happened, they had found the miraculous taxicab waiting
for them under the arch of the palace gate. They had found a can
of white paint, and on the front doors of the cab Frank had
painted white stars, and on the roof he had painted the letters of
a _granfalloon_: U.S.A.
     "And you left the paint under the arch," I said.
     "How did you know?" asked Crosby.
     "Somebody else came along and wrote a poem."
     I did not inquire at once as to how Angela Hoenikker Conners
and Philip and Julian Castle had met their ends, for I would have
had to speak at once about Mona. I wasn't ready to do that yet.
     I particularly didn't want to discuss the death of Mona
since, as we rode along in the taxi, the Crosbys and little Newt
seemed so inappropriately gay.
     Hazel gave me a clue to the gaiety. "Wait until you see how
we live. We've got all kinds of good things to eat. Whenever we
want water, we just build a campfire and melt some. The Swiss
Family Robinson--that's what we call ourselves."
Of Mice and Men 123
     A curious six months followed--the six months in which I
wrote this book. Hazel spoke accurately when she called our little
society the Swiss Family Robinson, for we had survived a storm,
were isolated, and then the living became very easy indeed. It was
not without a certain Walt Disney charm.
     No plants or animals survived, it's true. But _ice-nine_
preserved pigs and cows and little deer and windrows of birds and
berries until we were ready to thaw and cook them. Moreover, there
were tons of canned goods to be had for the grubbing in the ruins
of Bolivar. And we seemed to be the only people left on San
Lorenzo.

     Food was no problem, and neither were clothing or shelter,
for the weather was uniformly dry and dead and hot. Our health was
monotonously good. Apparently all the germs were dead, too--or
napping.
     Our adjustment became so satisfactory, so complacent, that no
one marveled or protested when Hazel said, "One good thing anyway,
no mosquitoes."
     She was sitting on a three-legged stool in the clearing where
Frank's house had stood. She was sewing strips of red, white, and
blue cloth together. Like Betsy Ross, she was making an American
flag. No one was unkind enough to point out to her that the red
was really a peach, that the blue was nearly a Kelly green, and
that the fifty stars she had cut out were six-pointed stars of
David rather than five-pointed American stars.
     Her husband, who had always been a pretty good cook, now
simmered a stew in an iron pot over a wood fire nearby. He did all
our cooking for us; he loved to cook.
     "Looks good, smells good," I commented.
     He winked. "Don't shoot the cook. He's doing the best he
can."
     In the background of this cozy conversation were the nagging
dah-dah-dahs and dit-dit-dits of an automatic SOS transmitter
Frank had made. It called for help both night and day.
     "Save our soullllls," Hazel intoned, singing along with the
transmitter as she sewed, "save our soulllllls."
     "How's the writing going?" Hazel asked me.
     "Fine, Mom, just fine."
     "When you going to show us some of it?"
     "When it's ready, Mom, when it's ready."
     "A lot of famous writers were Hoosiers."
     "I know."
     "You'll be one of a long, long line." She smiled hopefully.
"Is it a funny book?"
     "I hope so, Mom."
     "I like a good laugh."
     "I know you do."
     "Each person here had some specialty, something to give the
rest. You write books that make us laugh, and Frank goes science
things, and little Newt--he paints pictures for us all, and I sew,
and Lowie cooks."
     "'Many hands make much work light.' Old Chinese proverb."
     "They were smart in a lot of ways, those Chinese were."
     "Yes, let's ketp their memory alive."
     "I wish now I'd studied them more."
     "Well, it was hard to do, even under ideal conditions."
     "I wish now I'd studied everything more."
     "We've all got regrets, Mom."

     "No use crying over spilt milk."
     "As the poet said, Mom, 'Of all the words of mice and men,
the saddest are, "It might have been."'"
     "That's so beautiful, and so true."
Frank's Ant Farm 124
     I hated to see Hazel finishing the flag, because I was all
balled up in her addled plans for it. She had the idea that I had
agreed to plant the fool thing on the peak of Mount McCabe.
     "If Lowe and I were younger, we'd do it ourselves. Now all we
can do is give you the flag and send our best wishes with you."
     "Mom, I wonder if that's really a good place for the flag."
     "What other place _is_ there?'
     "I'll put on my thinking cap." I excused myself and went down
into the cave to see what Frank was up to.
     He was up to nothing new. He was watching an ant farm he had
constructed. He had dug up a few surviving ants in the three-
dimensional world of the ruins of Bolivar, and he had reduced the
dimensions to two by making a dirt and ant sandwich between two
sheets of glass. The ants could do nothing without Frank's
catching them at it and commenting upon it.
     The experiment had solved in short order the mystery of how
ants could survive in a waterless world. As far as I know, they
were the only insects that did survive, and they did it by forming
with their bodies tight balls around grains of _ice-nine_. They
would generate enough heat at the center to kill half their number
and produce one bead of dew. The dew was drinkable. The corpses
were edible.
     "Eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die," I said to
Frank and his tiny cannibals.
     His response was always the same. It was a peevish lecture on
all the things that people could learn from ants.
     My responses were ritualized, too. "Nature's a wonderful
thing, Frank. Nature's a wonderful thing."
     "You know why ants are so successful?" he asked me for the
thousandth time. "They co-_op_-er-ate."
     "That's a hell of a good word--co-operation."

     "Who _taught_ them how to make water?"
     "Who taught _me_ how to make water?"
     "That's a silly answer and you know it."
     "Sorry."
     "There was a time when I took people's silly answers
seriously. I'm past that now."
     "A milestone."
     "I've grown up a good deal."
     "At a certain amount of expense to the world." I could say
things like that to Frank with an absolute assurance that he would
not hear them.
     "There was a time when people could bluff me without much
trouble because I didn't have much self-confidence in myself."
     "The mere cutting down of the number of people on earth would
go a long way toward alleviating your own particular social
problems," I suggested. Again, I made the suggestion to a deaf
man.
     "You _tell_ me, you _tell_ me who told these ants how to make
water," he challenged me again.
     Several times I had offered the obvious notion that God had
taught them. And I knew from onerous experience that he would
neither reject nor accept this theory. He simply got madder and
madder, putting the question again and again.
     I walked away from Frank, just as _The Books of Bokonon_
advised me to do. "Beware of the man who works hard to learn
something, learns it, and finds himself no wiser than before,"
Bokonon tells us. "He is full of murderous resentment of people
who are ignorant without having come by their ignorance the hard
way."
     I went looking for our painter, for little Newt.
The Tasmanians 125
     When I found little Newt, painting a blasted landscape a
quarter of a mile from the cave, he asked me if I would drive him
into Bolivar to forage for paints. He couldn't drive himself. He
couldn't reach the pedals.

     So off we went, and, on the way, I asked him if he had any
sex urge left. I mourned that I had none--no dreams in that line,
nothing.
     "I used to dream of women twenty, thirty, forty feet tall,"
he told me. "But now? God, I can't even remember what my Ukrainian
midget looked like."
     I recalled a thing I had read about the aboriginal
Tasmanians, habitually naked persons who, when encountered by
white men in the seventeenth century, were strangers to
agriculture, animal husbandry, architecture of any sort, and
possibly even fire. They were so contemptible in the eyes of white
men, by reason of their ignorance, that they were hunted for sport
by the first settlers, who were convicts from England. And the
aborigines found life so unattractive that they gave up
reproducing.
     I suggested to Newt now that it was a similar hopelessness
that had unmanned us.
     Newt made a shrewd observation. "I guess all the excitement
in bed had more to do with excitement about keeping the human race
going than anybody ever imagined."
     "Of course, if we had a woman of breeding age among us, that
might change the situation radically. Poor old Hazel is years
beyond having even a Mongolian idiot."
     Newt revealed that he knew quite a bit about Mongolian
idiots. He had once attended a special school for grotesque
children, and several of his schoolmates had been Mongoloids. "The
best writer in our class was a Mongoloid named Myrna--I mean
penmanship, not what she actually wrote down. God, I haven't
thought about her for years."
     "Was it a good school?"
     "All I remember is what the headmaster used to say all the
time. He was always bawling us out over the loudspeaker system for
some mess we'd made, and he always started out the same way: 'I am
sick and tired . . .'"
     "That comes pretty close to describing how I feel most of the
time."
     "Maybe that's the way you're supposed to feel."
     "You talk like a Bokononist, Newt."
     "Why shouldn't I? As far as I know, Bokononism is the only
religion that has any commentary on midgets."
     When I hadn't been writing, I'd been poring over _The Books
of Bokonon_, but the reference to midgets had escaped me. I was
grateful to Newt for calling it to my attention, for the quotation
captured in a couplet the cruel paradox of Bokononist thought, the
heartbreaking necessity of lying about reality, and the
heartbreaking impossibility of lying about it.

Midget, midget, midget, how he struts and winks,
For he knows a man's as big as what he hopes and thinks!
Soft Pipes, Play On 126
     "Such a _depressing_ religion!" I cried. I directed our
conversation into the area of Utopias, of what might have been, of
what should have been, of what might yet be, if the world would
thaw.
     But Bokonon had been there, too, had written a whole book
about Utopias, _The Seventh Book_, which he called "Bokonon's
Republic." In that book are these ghastly aphorisms:
     The hand that stocks the drug stores rules the world.
     Let us start our Republic with a chain of drug stores, a
chain of grocery stores, a chain of gas chambers, and a national
game. After that, we can write our Constitution.
     I called Bokonon a jigaboo bastard, and I changed the subject
again. I spoke of meaningful, individual heroic acts. I praised in
particular the way in which Julian Castle and his son had chosen
to die. While the tornadoes still raged, they had set out on foot
for the House of Hope and Mercy in the Jungle to give whatever
hope and mercy was theirs to give. And I saw magnificence in the
way poor Angela had died, too. She had picked up a clarinet in the
ruins of Bolivar and had begun to play it at once, without
concerning herself as to whether the mouthpiece might be
contaminated with _ice-nine_.
     "Soft pipes, play on," I murmured huskily.
     "Well, maybe you can find some neat way to die, too," said
Newt.
     It was a Bokononist thing to say.
     I blurted out my dream of climbing Mount McCabe with some
magnificent symbol and planting it there. I took my hands from the
wheel for an instant to show him how empty of symbols they were.

"But what in hell would the right symbol _be_, Newt? What in hell
would it _be?_" I grabbed the wheel again. "Here it is, the end of
the world; and here I am, almost the very last man; and there it
is, the highest mountain in sight. I know now what my _karass_ has
been up to, Newt. It's been working night and day for maybe half a
million years to get me up that mountain." I wagged my head and
nearly wept. "But what, for the love of God, is supposed to be in
my hands?"
     I looked out of the car window blindly as I asked that, so
blindly that I went more than a mile before realizing that I had
looked into the eyes of an old Negro man, a living colored man,
who was sitting by the side of the road.
     And then I slowed down. And then I stopped. I covered my
eyes.
     "What's the matter?" asked Newt.
     "I saw Bokonon back there."
The End 127
     He was sitting on a rock. He was barefoot. His feet were
frosty with _ice-nine_. His only garment was a white bedspread
with blue tufts. The tufts said Casa Mona. He took no note of our
arrival. In one hand was a pencil. In the other was paper.
     "Bokonon?"
     "Yes?"
     "May I ask what you're thinking?"
     "I am thinking, young man, about the final sentence for _The
Books of Bokonon_. The time for the final sentence has come."
     "Any luck?"
     He shrugged and handed me a piece of paper.
     This is what I read:
     If I were a younger man, I would write a history of human
stupidity; and I would climb to the top of Mount McCabe and lie
down on my back with my history for a pillow; and I would take
from the ground some of the blue-white poison that makes statues

of men; and I would make a statue of myself, lying on my back,
grinning horribly, and thumbing my nose at You Know Who.

THE EXPRESSION “Breakfast of Champions” is a registered trademark of General Mills, Inc., for use on a breakfast cereal product. The use of the identical expression as the title for this book is not intended to indicate an association with or sponsorship by General Mills, nor is it intended to disparage their fine products.
•••
The person to whom this book is dedicated, Phoebe Hurty, is no longer among the living, as they say. She was an Indianapolis widow when I met her late in the Great Depression. I was sixteen or so. She was about forty.
She was rich, but she had gone to work every weekday of her adult life, so she went on doing that. She wrote a sane and funny advice-to-the-lovelorn column for the Indianapolis Times, a good paper which is now defunct.
Defunct.
She wrote ads for the William H. Block Company, a department store which still flourishes in a building my father designed. She wrote this ad for an end-of-the-summer sale on straw hats: “For prices like this, you can run them through your horse and put them on your roses.”
•••
Phoebe Hurty hired me to write copy for ads about teenage clothes. I had to wear the clothes I praised. That was part of the job. And I became friends with her two sons, who were my age. I was over at their house all the time.
She would talk bawdily to me and her sons, and to our girlfriends when we brought them around. She was funny. She was liberating. She taught us to be impolite in conversation not only about sexual matters, but about American history and famous heroes, about the distribution of wealth, about school, about everything.
I now make my living by being impolite. I am clumsy at it. I keep trying to imitate the impoliteness which was so graceful in Phoebe Hurty. I think now that grace was easier for her than it is for me because of the mood of the Great Depression. She believed what so many Americans believed then: that the nation would be happy and just and rational when prosperity came.
I never hear that word anymore: Prosperity. It used to be a synonym for Paradise. And Phoebe Hurty was able to believe that the impoliteness she recommended would give shape to an American paradise.
Now her sort of impoliteness is fashionable. But nobody believes anymore in a new American paradise. I sure miss Phoebe Hurty. •••
As for the suspicion I express in this book, that human beings are robots, are machines: It should be noted that people, mostly men, suffering from the last stages of syphilis, from locomotor ataxia, were common spectacles in downtown Indianapolis and in circus crowds when I was a boy.
Those people were infested with carnivorous little corkscrews which could be seen only with a microscope. The victims’ vertebrae were welded together after the corkscrews got through with the meat between. The syphilitics seemed tremendously dignified—erect, eyes straight ahead.
I saw one stand on a curb at the corner of Meridian and Washington streets one time, underneath an overhanging clock which my father designed. The intersection was known locally as “The Crossroads of America.”
This syphilitic man was thinking hard there, at the Crossroads of America, about how to get his legs to step off the curb and carry him across Washington Street. He shuddered gently, as though he had a small motor which was idling inside. Here was his problem: his brains, where the instructions to his legs originated, were being eaten alive by corkscrews. The wires which had to carry the instructions weren’t insulated anymore, or were eaten clear through. Switches along the way were welded open or shut.
This man looked like an old, old man, although he might have been only thirty years old. He thought and thought. And then he kicked two times like a chorus girl. He certainly looked like a machine to me when I was a boy.
•••
I tend to think of human beings as huge, rubbery test tubes, too, with chemical reactions seething inside. When I was a boy, I saw a lot of people with goiters. So did Dwayne Hoover, the Pontiac dealer who is the hero of this book. Those unhappy Earthlings had such swollen thyroid glands that they seemed to have zucchini squash growing from their throats.
All they had to do in order to have ordinary lives, it turned out, was to consume less than one-millionth of an ounce of iodine every day. My own mother wrecked her brains with chemicals, which were supposed to make her sleep.
When I get depressed, I take a little pill, and I cheer up again.
And so on.
So it is a big temptation to me, when I create a character for a novel, to say that he is what he is because of faulty wiring, or because of microscopic amounts of chemicals which he ate or failed to eat on that particular day.
•••
What do I myself think of this particular book? I feel lousy about it, but I always feel lousy about my books. My friend Knox Burger said one time that a certain cumbersome novel “... read as though it had been written by Philboyd Studge.” That’s who I think I am when I write what I am seemingly programmed to write.
 
•••
This book is my fiftieth-birthday present to myself. I feel as though I am crossing the spine of a roof—having ascended one slope.
I am programmed at fifty to perform childishly—to insult “The Star-Spangled Banner,” to scrawl pictures of a Nazi flag and an asshole and a lot of other things with a felt-tipped pen. To give an idea of the maturity of my illustrations for this book, here is my picture of an asshole:
•••
I think I am trying to clear my head of all the junk in there—the assholes, the flags, the underpants. Yes—there is a picture in this book of underpants. I’m throwing out characters from my other books, too. I’m not going to put on any more puppet shows.
I think I am trying to make my head as empty as it was when I was born onto this damaged planet fifty years ago.
I suspect that this is something most white Americans, and nonwhite Americans who imitate white Americans, should do. The things other people have put into my head, at any rate, do not fit together nicely, are often useless and ugly, are out of proportion with one another, are out of proportion with life as it really is outside my head.
I have no culture, no humane harmony in my brains. I can’t live without a culture anymore. •••
So this book is a sidewalk strewn with junk, trash which I throw over my shoulders as I travel in time back to November eleventh, nineteen hundred and twenty-two.
I will come to a time in my backwards trip when November eleventh, accidentally my birthday, was a sacred day called Armistice Day. When I was a boy, and when Dwayne Hoover was a boy, all the people of all the nations which had fought in the First World War were silent during the eleventh minute of the eleventh hour of Armistice Day, which was the eleventh day of the eleventh month.
It was during that minute in nineteen hundred and eighteen, that millions upon millions of human beings stopped butchering one another. I have talked to old men who were on battlefields during that minute. They have told me in one way or another that the sudden silence was the Voice of God. So we still have among us some men who can remember when God spoke clearly to mankind.
•••
Armistice Day has become Veterans’ Day. Armistice Day was sacred. Veterans’ Day is not.
So I will throw Veterans’ Day over my shoulder. Armistice Day I will keep. I don’t want to throw away any sacred things. What else is sacred? Oh, Romeo and Juliet, for instance.
And all music is.
—PHILBOYD STUDGE
 
1
THISISATALE ofameetingoftwolonesome,skinny,fairlyoldwhitemenon
a planet which was dying fast.
One of them was a science-fiction writer named Kilgore Trout. He was a nobody at the time, and he supposed his life was over. He was mistaken. As a consequence of the meeting, he became one of the most beloved and respected human beings in history.
The man he met was an automobile dealer, a Pontiac dealer named Dwayne Hoover. Dwayne Hoover was on the brink of going insane.
•••
Listen:
Trout and Hoover were citizens of the United States of America, a country which was called America for short. This was their national anthem, which was pure balderdash, like so much they were expected to take seriously:
O, say can you see by the dawn’s early light
What so proudly we hailed at the twilight’s last gleaming, Whose broad stripes and bright stars, thru the perilous fight O’er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming? And the rockets’ red glare, the bombs bursting in air,
Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. O, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave
O’er the land of the free and the home of the brave?
There were one quadrillion nations in the Universe, but the nation Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout belonged to was the only one with a national anthem which was gibberish sprinkled with question marks.
Here is what their flag looked like:
 
 It was the law of their nation, a law no other nation on the planet had about its flag, which said this: “The flag shall not be dipped to any person or thing.”
Flag-dipping was a form of friendly and respectful salute, which consisted of bringing the flag on a stick closer to the ground, then raising it up again.
•••
The motto of Dwayne Hoover’s and Kilgore Trout’s nation was this, which meant in a language nobody spoke anymore, Out of Many, One: “E pluribus unum.”
The undippable flag was a beauty, and the anthem and the vacant motto might not have mattered much, if it weren’t for this: a lot of citizens were so ignored and cheated and insulted that they thought they might be in the wrong country, or even on the wrong planet, that some terrible mistake had been made. It might have comforted them some if their anthem and their motto had mentioned fairness or brotherhood or hope or happiness, had somehow welcomed them to the society and its real estate.
If they studied their paper money for clues as to what their country was all about, they found, among a lot of other baroque trash, a picture of a truncated pyramid with a radiant eye on top of it, like this:
 
Not even the President of the United States knew what that was all about. It was as though the country were saying to its citizens, “In nonsense is strength.”
•••
A lot of the nonsense was the innocent result of playfulness on the part of the founding fathers of the nation of Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout. The founders were aristocrats, and they wished to show off their useless education, which consisted of the study of hocus-pocus from ancient times. They were bum poets as well.
But some of the nonsense was evil, since it concealed great crimes. For example, teachers of children in the United States of America wrote this date on blackboards again and again, and asked the children to memorize it with pride and Joy:
The teachers told the children that this was when their continent was discovered by human beings. Actually, millions of human beings were already living full and imaginative lives on the continent in 1492. That was simply the year in which sea pirates began to cheat and rob and kill them.
Here was another piece of evil nonsense which children were taught: that the sea pirates eventually created a government which became a beacon of freedom to human beings everywhere else. There were pictures and statues of this supposed imaginary beacon for children to see. It was sort of an ice- cream cone on fire. It looked like this:
 
 Actually, the sea pirates who had the most to do with the creation of the new government owned human slaves. They used human beings for machinery, and, even after slavery was eliminated, because it was so embarrassing, they and their descendants continued to think of ordinary human beings as machines.
•••
The sea pirates were white. The people who were already on the continent when the pirates arrived were copper-colored. When slavery was introduced onto the continent, the slaves were black.
Color was everything.
•••
Here is how the pirates were able to take whatever they wanted from anybody else: they had the best boats in the world, and they were meaner than anybody else, and they had gunpowder, which was a mixture of potassium nitrate, charcoal, and sulphur. They touched this seemingly listless powder with fire, and it turned violently into gas. This gas blew projectiles out of metal tubes at terrific velocities. The projectiles cut through meat and bone very easily; so the pirates could wreck the wiring or the bellows or the plumbing of a stubborn human being, even when he was far, far away.
The chief weapon of the sea pirates, however, was their capacity to astonish. Nobody else could believe, until it was much too late, how heartless

and greedy they were.
•••
When Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout met each other, their country was by far the richest and most powerful country on the planet. It had most of the food and minerals and machinery, and it disciplined other countries by threatening to shoot big rockets at them or to drop things on them from airplanes.
Most other countries didn’t have doodley-squat. Many of them weren’t even inhabitable anymore. They had too many people and not enough space. They had sold everything that was any good, and there wasn’t anything to eat anymore, and still the people went on fucking all the time.
Fucking was how babies were made. •••
A lot of the people on the wrecked planet were Communists. They had a theory that what was left of the planet should be shared more or less equally among all the people, who hadn’t asked to come to a wrecked planet in the first place. Meanwhile, more babies were arriving all the time—kicking and screaming, yelling for milk.
In some places people would actually try to eat mud or such on gravel while babies were being born just a few feet away.
And so on.
•••
Dwayne Hoover’s and Kilgore Trout’s country, where there was still plenty of everything, was opposed to Communism. It didn’t think that Earthlings who had a lot should share it with others unless they really wanted to, and most of them didn’t want to.
So they didn’t have to.
•••
Everybody in America was supposed to grab whatever he could and

hold on to it. Some Americans were very good at grabbing and holding, were fabulously well-to-do. Others couldn’t get their hands on doodley-squat.
Dwayne Hoover was fabulously well-to-do when he met Kilgore Trout. A man whispered those exact words to a friend one morning as Dwayne walked by: “Fabulously well-to-do.”
And here’s how much of the planet Kilgore Trout owned in those days: doodley-squat.
And Kilgore Trout and Dwayne Hoover met in Midland City, which was Dwayne’s home town, during an Arts Festival there in autumn of 1972.
As has already been said: Dwayne was a Pontiac dealer who was going insane.
Dwayne’s incipient insanity was mainly a matter of chemicals, of course. Dwayne Hoover’s body was manufacturing certain chemicals which unbalanced his mind. But Dwayne, like all novice lunatics, needed some bad ideas, too, so that his craziness could have shape and direction.
Bad chemicals and bad ideas were the Yin and Yang of madness. Yin and Yang were Chinese symbols of harmony. They looked like this:
The bad ideas were delivered to Dwayne by Kilgore Trout. Trout considered himself not only harmless but invisible. The world had paid so little attention to him that he supposed he was dead.
He hoped he was dead.
But he learned from his encounter with Dwayne that he was alive enough to give a fellow human being ideas which would turn him into a monster.
Here was the core of the bad ideas which Trout gave to Dwayne: Everybody on Earth was a robot, with one exception—Dwayne Hoover.
Of all the creatures in the Universe, only Dwayne was thinking and
 
feeling and worrying and planning and so on. Nobody else knew what pain was. Nobody else had any choices to make. Everybody else was a fully automatic machine, whose purpose was to stimulate Dwayne. Dwayne was a new type of creature being tested by the Creator of the Universe.
Only Dwayne Hoover had free will. •••
Trout did not expect to be believed. He put the bad ideas into a science- fiction novel, and that was where Dwayne found them. The book wasn’t addressed to Dwayne alone. Trout had never heard of Dwayne when he wrote it. It was addressed to anybody who happened to open it up. It said to simply anybody, in effect, “Hey—guess what: You’re the only creature with free will. How does that make you feel?” And so on.
It was a tour de force. It was a jeu d’esprit. But it was mind poison to Dwayne.
•••
It shook up Trout to realize that even he could bring evil into the world —in the form of bad ideas. And, after Dwayne was carted off to a lunatic asylum in a canvas camisole, Trout became a fanatic on the importance of ideas as causes and cures for diseases.
But nobody would listen to him. He was a dirty old man in the wilderness, crying out among the trees and underbrush, “Ideas or the lack of them can cause disease!”
•••
Kilgore Trout became a pioneer in the field of mental health. He advanced his theories disguised as science-fiction. He died in 1981, almost twenty years after he made Dwayne Hoover so sick.
He was by then recognized as a great artist and scientist. The American Academy of Arts and Sciences caused a monument to be erected over his ashes. Carved in its face was a quotation from his last novel, his two- hundred-and-ninth novel, which was unfinished when he died. The

monument looked like this:
 
2
DWAYNE WAS a widower. He lived alone at night in a dream house in
Fairchild Heights, which was the most desirable residential area in the city. Every house there cost at least one hundred thousand dollars to build. Every house was on at least four acres of land.
Dwayne’s only companion at night was a Labrador retriever named Sparky. Sparky could not wag his tail—because of an automobile accident many years ago, so he had no way of telling other dogs how friendly he was. He had to fight all the time. His ears were in tatters. He was lumpy with scars.
•••
Dwayne had a black servant named Lottie Davis. She cleaned his house every day. Then she cooked his supper for him and served it. Then she went home. She was descended from slaves.
Lottie Davis and Dwayne didn’t talk much, even though they liked each other a lot. Dwayne reserved most of his conversation for the dog. He would get down on the floor and roll around with Sparky, and he would say things like, “You and me, Spark,” and “How’s my old buddy?” and so on.
And that routine went on unrevised, even after Dwayne started to go crazy, so Lottie had nothing unusual to notice.
•••
Kilgore Trout owned a parakeet named Bill. Like Dwayne Hoover, Trout was all alone at night, except for his pet. Trout, too, talked to his pet.
But while Dwayne babbled to his Labrador retriever about love, Trout sneered and muttered to his parakeet about the end of the world.
 
“Any time now,” he would say. “And high time, too.”
It was Trout’s theory that the atmosphere would become unbreathable soon.
Trout supposed that when the atmosphere became poisonous, Bill would keel over a few minutes before Trout did. He would kid Bill about that. “How’s the old respiration, Bill?” he’d say, or, “Seems like you’ve got a touch of the old emphysema, Bill,” or, “We never discussed what kind of a funeral you want, Bill. You never even told me what your religion is.” And so on.
He told Bill that humanity deserved to die horribly, since it had behaved so cruelly and wastefully on a planet so sweet. “We’re all Heliogabalus, Bill,” he would say. This was the name of a Roman emperor who had a sculptor make a hollow, life-size iron bull with a door on it. The door could be locked from the outside. The bull’s mouth was open. That was the only other opening to the outside.
Heliogabalus would have a human being put into the bull through the door, and the door would be locked. Any sounds the human being made in there would come out of the mouth of the bull. Heliogabalus would have guests in for a nice party, with plenty of food and wine and beautiful women and pretty boys—and Heliogabalus would have a servant light kindling. The kindling was under dry firewood—which was under the bull.
•••
Trout did another thing which some people might have considered eccentric: he called mirrors leaks. It amused him to pretend that mirrors were holes between two universes.
If he saw a child near a mirror, he might wag his finger at a child warningly, and say with great solemnity, “Don’t get too near that leak. You wouldn’t want to wind up in the other universe, would you?”
Sometimes somebody would say in his presence, “Excuse me, I have to take a leak.” This was a way of saying that the speaker intended to drain liquid wastes from his body through a valve in his lower abdomen.
And Trout would reply waggishly, “Where I come from, that means you’re about to steal a mirror.”

And so on.
By the time of Trout’s death, of course, everybody called mirrors leaks. That was how respectable even his jokes had become.
•••
In 1972, Trout lived in a basement apartment in Cohoes, New York. He made his living as an installer of aluminum combination storm windows and screens. He had nothing to do with the sales end of the business—because he had no charm. Charm was a scheme for making strangers like and trust a person immediately, no matter what the charmer had in mind.
••• Dwayne Hoover had oodles of charm.
•••
I can have oodles of charm when I want to.
••• A lot of people have oodles of charm.
•••
Trout’s employer and co-workers had no idea that he was a writer. No reputable publisher had ever heard of him, for that matter, even though he had written one hundred and seventeen novels and two thousand short stories by the time he met Dwayne.
He made carbon copies of nothing he wrote. He mailed off manuscripts without enclosing stamped, self-addressed envelopes for their safe return. Sometimes he didn’t even include a return address. He got names and addresses of publishers from magazines devoted to the writing business, which he read avidly in the periodical rooms of public libraries. He thus got in touch with a firm called World Classics Library, which published hard- core pornography in Los Angeles, California. They used his stories, which usually didn’t even have women in them, to give bulk to books and

magazines of salacious pictures.
They never told him where or when he might expect to find himself in print. Here is what they paid him: doodley-squat.
•••
They didn’t even send him complimentary copies of the books and magazines in which he appeared, so he had to search them out in pornography stores. And the titles he gave to his stories were often changed. “Pan Galactic Straw-boss,” for instance, became “Mouth Crazy.”
Most distracting to Trout, however, were the illustrations his publishers selected, which had nothing to do with his tales. He wrote a novel, for instance, about an Earthling named Delmore Skag, a bachelor in a neighborhood where everybody else had enormous families. And Skag was a scientist, and he found a way to reproduce himself in chicken soup. He would shave living cells from the palm of his right hand, mix them with the soup, and expose the soup to cosmic rays. The cells turned into babies which looked exactly like Delmore Skag.
Pretty soon, Delmore was having several babies a day, and inviting his neighbors to share his pride and happiness. He had mass baptisms of as many as a hundred babies at a time. He became famous as a family man.
And so on.
•••
Skag hoped to force his country into making laws against excessively large families, but the legislatures and the courts declined to meet the problem head-on. They passed stern laws instead against the possession by unmarried persons of chicken soup.
And so on.
The illustrations for this book were murky photographs of several white women giving blow jobs to the same black man, who, for some reason, wore a Mexican sombrero.
At the time he met Dwayne Hoover, Trout’s most widely-distributed book was Plague on Wheels. The publisher didn’t change the title, but he obliterated most of it and all of Trout’s name with a lurid banner which made

this promise:
 A wide-open beaver was a photograph of a woman not wearing underpants, and with her legs far apart, so that the mouth of her vagina could be seen. The expression was first used by news photographers, who often got to see up women’s skirts at accidents and sporting events and from underneath fire escapes and so on. They needed a code word to yell to other newsmen and friendly policemen and firemen and so on, to let them know what could be seen, in case they wanted to see it. The word was this: “Beaver!”
A beaver was actually a large rodent. It loved water, so it built dams. It looked like this:
The sort of beaver which excited news photographers so much looked like this:
 
 This was where babies came from. •••
When Dwayne was a boy, when Kilgore Trout was a boy, when I was a boy, and even when we became middle-aged men and older, it was the duty of the police and the courts to keep representations of such ordinary apertures from being examined and discussed by persons not engaged in the practice of medicine. It was somehow decided that wide-open beavers, which were ten thousand times as common as real beavers, should be the most massively defended secret under law.
So there was a madness about wide-open beavers. There was also a madness about a soft, weak metal, an element, which had somehow been declared the most desirable of all elements, which was gold.
•••
And the madness about wide-open beavers was extended to underpants when Dwayne and Trout and I were boys. Girls concealed their underpants at all costs, and boys tried to see their underpants at all costs.
Female underpants looked like this:

 One of the first things Dwayne learned in school as a little boy, in fact, was a poem he was supposed to scream in case he saw a girl’s underpants by accident in the playground. Other students taught it to him. This was it:
I see England,
I see France;
I see a little girl’s Underpants!
When Kilgore Trout accepted the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1979, he declared: “Some people say there is no such thing as progress. The fact that human beings are now the only animals left on Earth, I confess, seems a confusing sort of victory. Those of you familiar with the nature of my earlier published works will understand why I mourned especially when the last beaver died.
“There were two monsters sharing this planet with us when I was a boy, however, and I celebrate their extinction today. They were determined to kill us, or at least to make our lives meaningless. They came close to success. They were cruel adversaries, which my little friends the beavers were not. Lions? No. Tigers? No. Lions and tigers snoozed most of the time. The monsters I will name never snoozed. They inhabited our heads. They were the arbitrary lusts for gold, and, God help us, for a glimpse of a little girl’s underpants.
“I thank those lusts for being so ridiculous, for they taught us that it was possible for a human being to believe anything, and to behave passionately in keeping with that belief—any belief.
“So now we can build an unselfish society by devoting to unselfishness the frenzy we once devoted to gold and to underpants.”
He paused, and then he recited with wry mournfulness the beginning of a poem he had learned to scream in Bermuda, when he was a little boy. The poem was all the more poignant, since it mentioned two nations which no longer existed as such. “I see England,” he said, “I see France—”

•••
Actually, women’s underpants had been drastically devalued by the time of the historic meeting between Dwayne Hoover and Trout. The price of gold was still on the rise.
Photographs of women’s underpants weren’t worth the paper they were printed on, and even high quality color motion pictures of wide-open beavers were going begging in the marketplace.
There had been a time when a copy of Trout’s most popular book to date, Plague on Wheels, had brought as much as twelve dollars, because of the illustrations. It was now being offered for a dollar, and people who paid even that much did so not because of the pictures. They paid for the words.
•••
The words in the book, incidentally, were about life on a dying planet named Lingo-Three, whose inhabitants resembled American automobiles. They had wheels. They were powered by internal combustion engines. They ate fossil fuels. They weren’t manufactured, though. They reproduced. They laid eggs containing baby automobiles, and the babies matured in pools of oil drained from adult crankcases.
Lingo-Three was visited by space travelers, who learned that the creatures were becoming extinct for this reason: they had destroyed their planet’s resources, including its atmosphere.
The space travelers weren’t able to offer much in the way of material assistance. The automobile creatures hoped to borrow some oxygen, and to have the visitors carry at least one of their eggs to another planet, where it might hatch, where an automobile civilization could begin again. But the smallest egg they had was a forty-eight pounder, and the space travelers themselves were only an inch high, and their space ship wasn’t even as big as an Earthling shoebox. They were from Zeltoldimar.
The spokesman for the Zeltoldimarians was Kago. Kago said that all he could do was to tell others in the Universe about how wonderful the automobile creatures had been. Here is what he said to all those rusting junkers who were out of gas: “You will be gone, but not forgotten.”
The illustration for the story at this point showed two Chinese girls,

seemingly identical twins, seated on a couch with their legs wide open. •••
So Kago and his brave little Zeltoldimarian crew, which was all homosexual, roamed the Universe, keeping the memory of the automobile creatures alive. They came at last to the planet Earth. In all innocence, Kago told the Earthlings about the automobiles. Kago did not know that human beings could be as easily felled by a single idea as by cholera or the bubonic plague. There was no immunity to cuckoo ideas on Earth.
•••
And here, according to Trout, was the reason human beings could not reject ideas because they were bad: “Ideas on Earth were badges of friendship or enmity. Their content did not matter. Friends agreed with friends, in order to express friendliness. Enemies disagreed with enemies, in order to express enmity.
“The ideas Earthlings held didn’t matter for hundreds of thousands of years, since they couldn’t do much about them anyway. Ideas might as well be badges as anything.
“They even had a saying about the futility of ideas: ‘If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.’
“And then Earthlings discovered tools. Suddenly agreeing with friends could be a form of suicide or worse. But agreements went on, not for the sake of common sense or decency or self-preservation, but for friendliness.
“Earthlings went on being friendly, when they should have been thinking instead. And even when they built computers to do some thinking for them, they designed them not so much for wisdom as for friendliness. So they were doomed. Homicidal beggars could ride.”

3
WITHIN A CENTURY of little Kago’s arrival on Earth, according to Trout’s
novel, every form of life on that once peaceful and moist and nourishing blue-green ball was dying or dead. Everywhere were the shells of the great beetles which men had made and worshipped. They were automobiles. They had killed everything.
Little Kago himself died long before the planet did. He was attempting to lecture on the evils of the automobile in a bar in Detroit. But he was so tiny that nobody paid any attention to him. He lay down to rest for a moment, and a drunk automobile worker mistook him for a kitchen match. He killed Kago by trying to strike him repeatedly on the underside of the bar.
•••
Trout received only one fan letter before 1972. It was from an eccentric millionaire, who hired a private detective agency to discover who and where he was. Trout was so invisible that the search cost eighteen thousand dollars.
The fan letter reached him in his basement in Cohoes. It was hand- written, and Trout concluded that the writer might be fourteen years old or so. The letter said that Plague on Wheels was the greatest novel in the English language, and that Trout should be President of the United States.
Trout read the letter out loud to his parakeet. “Things are looking up, Bill,” he said. “Always knew they would. Get a load of this.” And then he read the letter. There was no indication in the letter that the writer, whose name was Eliot Rosewater, was a grownup, was fabulously well-to-do.
•••
Kilgore Trout, incidentally, could never be President of the United
 
States without a Constitutional amendment. He hadn’t been born inside the country. His birthplace was Bermuda. His father, Leo Trout, while remaining an American citizen, worked there for many years for the Royal Ornithological Society—guarding the only nesting place in the world for Bermuda Erns. These great green sea eagles eventually became extinct, despite anything anyone could do.
•••
As a child, Trout had seen those Erns die, one by one. His father had assigned him the melancholy task of measuring wingspreads of the corpses. These were the largest creatures ever to fly under their own power on the planet. And the last corpse had the greatest wingspread of all, which was nineteen feet, two and three-quarters inches.
After all the Erns were dead, it was discovered what had killed them. It was a fungus, which attacked their eyes and brains. Men had brought the fungus to their rookery in the innocent form of athlete’s foot.
Here is what the flag of Kilgore Trout’s native island looked like:
•••
So Kilgore Trout had a depressing childhood, despite all of the sunshine and fresh air. The pessimism that overwhelmed him in later life, which destroyed his three marriages, which drove his only son, Leo, from home at the age of fourteen, very likely had its roots in the bittersweet mulch of rotting Erns.
 
•••
The fan letter came much too late. It wasn’t good news. It was perceived as an invasion of privacy by Kilgore Trout. The letter from Rosewater promised that he would make Trout famous. This is what Trout had to say about that, with only his parakeet listening: “Keep the hell out of my body bag.”
A body bag was a large plastic envelope for a freshly killed American soldier. It was a new invention.
•••
I do not know who invented the body bag. I do know who invented Kilgore Trout. I did.
I made him snaggle-toothed. I gave him hair, but I turned it white. I wouldn’t let him comb it or go to a barber. I made him grow it long and tangled.
I gave him the same legs the Creator of the Universe gave to my father when my father was a pitiful old man. They were pale white broomsticks. They were hairless. They were embossed fantastically with varicose veins.
And, two months after Trout received his first fan letter, I had him find in his mailbox an invitation to be a speaker at an arts festival in the American Middle West.
•••
The letter was from the Festival’s chairman, Fred T. Barry. He was respectful, almost reverent about Kilgore Trout. He beseeched him to be one of several distinguished out-of-town participants in the Festival, which would last for five days. It would celebrate the opening of the Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts in Midland City.
The letter did not say so, but Mildred Barry was the late mother of the Chairman, the wealthiest man in Midland City. Fred T. Barry had paid for the new Center of the Arts, which was a translucent sphere on stilts. It had no windows. When illuminated inside at night, it resembled a rising harvest moon.

Fred T. Barry, incidentally, was exactly the same age as Trout. They had the same birthday. But they certainly didn’t look anything alike. Fred T. Barry didn’t even look like a white man anymore, even though he was of pure English stock. As he grew older and older and happier and happier, and all his hair fell out everywhere, he came to look like an ecstatic old Chinaman.
He looked so much like a Chinaman that he had taken to dressing like a Chinaman. Real Chinamen often mistook him for a real Chinaman.
•••
Fred T. Barry confessed in his letter that he had not read the works of Kilgore Trout, but that he would joyfully do so before the Festival began. “You come highly recommended by Eliot Rosewater,” he said, “who assures me that you are perhaps the greatest living American novelist. There can be no higher praise than that.”
Clipped to the letter was a check for one thousand dollars. Fred T. Barry explained that this was for travel expenses and an honorarium.
It was a lot of money. Trout was suddenly fabulously well-to-do. •••
Here is how Trout happened to be invited: Fred T. Barry wanted to have a fabulously valuable oil painting as a focal point for the Midland City Festival of the Arts. As rich as he was, he couldn’t afford to buy one, so he looked for one to borrow.
The first person he went to was Eliot Rosewater, who owned an El Greco worth three million dollars or more. Rosewater said the Festival could have the picture on one condition: that it hire as a speaker the greatest living writer in the English language, who was Kilgore Trout.
Trout laughed at the flattering invitation, but he felt fear after that. Once again, a stranger was tampering with the privacy of his body bag. He put this question to his parakeet haggardly, and he rolled his eyes: “Why all this sudden interest in Kilgore Trout?”
He read the letter again. “They not only want Kilgore Trout,” he said, “they want him in a tuxedo, Bill. Some mistake has been made.”

He shrugged. “Maybe they invited me because they know I have a tuxedo,” he said. He really did own a tuxedo. It was in a steamer trunk which he had lugged from place to place for more than forty years. It contained toys from childhood, the bones of a Bermuda Ern, and many other curiosities— including the tuxedo he had worn to a senior dance just prior to his graduation from Thomas Jefferson High School in Dayton, Ohio, in 1924. Trout was born in Bermuda, and attended grammar school there. But then his family moved to Dayton.
His high school was named after a slave owner who was also one of the world’s greatest theoreticians on the subject of human liberty.
•••
Trout got his tuxedo out of the trunk and he put it on. It was a lot like a tuxedo I’d seen my father put on when he was an old, old man. It had a greenish patina of mold. Some of the growths it supported resembled patches of fine rabbit fur. “This will do nicely for the evenings,” said Trout. “But tell me, Bill—what does one wear in Midland City in October before the sun goes down?” He hauled up his pants legs so that his grotesquely ornamental shins were exposed. “Bermuda shorts and bobby socks, eh, Bill? After all—I am from Bermuda.”
He dabbed at his tuxedo with a damp rag, and the fungi came away easily. “Hate to do this, Bill,” he said of the fungi he was murdering. “Fungi have as much right to life as I do. They know what they want, Bill. Damned if I do anymore.”
Then he thought about what Bill himself might want. It was easy to guess. “Bill,” he said, “I like you so much, and I am such a big shot in the Universe, that I will make your three biggest wishes come true.” He opened the door of the cage, something Bill couldn’t have done in a thousand years.
Bill flew over to a windowsill. He put his little shoulder against the glass. There was just one layer of glass between Bill and the great out-of- doors. Although Trout was in the storm window business, he had no storm windows on his own abode.
“Your second wish is about to come true,” said Trout, and he again did something which Bill could never have done. He opened the window. But the opening of the window was such an alarming business to the parakeet that he

flew back to his cage and hopped inside.
Trout closed the door of the cage and latched it. “That’s the most intelligent use of three wishes I ever heard of,” he told the bird. “You made sure you’d still have something worth wishing for—to get out of the cage.”
•••
Trout made the connection between his lone fan letter and the invitation, but he couldn’t believe that Eliot Rosewater was a grownup. Rosewater’s handwriting looked like this:
“Bill,” said Trout tentatively, “some teen-ager named Rosewater got me this job. His parents must be friends of the Chairman of the Arts Festival, and they don’t know anything about books out that way. So when he said I was good, they believed him.”
Trout shook his head. “I’m not going, Bill. I don’t want out of my cage. I’m too smart for that. Even if I did want out, though, I wouldn’t go to Midland City to make a laughing stock of myself—and my only fan.”
•••
He left it at that. But he reread the invitation from time to time, got to know it by heart. And then one of the subtler messages on the paper got through to him. It was in the letterhead, which displayed two masks intended to represent comedy and tragedy:
One mask looked like this:
 
 The other one looked like this:
“They don’t want anything but smilers out there,” Trout said to his parakeet. “Unhappy failures need not apply.” But his mind wouldn’t leave it alone at that. He got an idea which he found very tangy: “But maybe an unhappy failure is exactly what they need to see.”
He became energetic after that. “Bill, Bill—” he said, “listen, I’m leaving the cage, but I’m coming back. I’m going out there to show them what nobody has ever seen at an arts festival before: a representative of all the thousands of artists who devoted their entire lives to a search for truth and beauty—and didn’t find doodley-squat!”
•••
Trout accepted the invitation after all. Two days before the Festival was to begin, he delivered Bill into the care of his landlady upstairs, and he hitchhiked to New York City—with five hundred dollars pinned to the inside of his underpants. The rest of the money he had put in a bank.
He went to New York first—because he hoped to find some of his books in pornography stores there. He had no copies at home. He despised them, but now he wanted to read out loud from them in Midland City—as a demonstration of a tragedy which was ludicrous as well.
He planned to tell the people out there what he hoped to have in the way of a tombstone.
 
This was it:
 
4
DWAYNE WAS meanwhile getting crazier all the time. He saw eleven moons
in the sky over the new Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts one night. The next morning, he saw a huge duck directing traffic at the intersection of Arsenal Avenue and Old County Road. He didn’t tell anybody what he saw. He maintained secrecy.
And the bad chemicals in his head were fed up with secrecy. They were no longer content with making him feel and see queer things. They wanted him to do queer things, also, and make a lot of noise.
They wanted Dwayne Hoover to be proud of his disease. •••
People said later that they were furious with themselves for not noticing the danger signals in Dwayne’s behavior, for ignoring his obvious cries for help. After Dwayne ran amok, the local paper ran a deeply sympathetic editorial about it, begging people to watch each other for danger signals. Here was its title:
A CRY FOR HELP
But Dwayne wasn’t all that weird before he met Kilgore Trout. His behavior in public kept him well within the limits of acceptable acts and beliefs and conversations in Midland City. The person closest to him, Francine Pefko, his white secretary and mistress, said that Dwayne seemed to be getting happier and happier all the time during the month before Dwayne went public as a maniac.
“I kept thinking,” she told a newspaper reporter from her hospital bed, “‘He is finally getting over his wife’s suicide.’”
 
•••
Francine worked at Dwayne’s principal place of business, which was Dwayne Hoover’s Exit Eleven Pontiac Village, just off the Interstate, next door to the new Holiday Inn.
Here is what made Francine think he was becoming happier: Dwayne began to sing songs which had been popular in his youth, such as “The Old Lamp Lighter,” and “Tippy-Tippy-Tin,” and “Hold Tight,” and “Blue Moon,” and so on. Dwayne had never sung before. Now he did it loudly as he sat at his desk, when he took a customer for a ride in a demonstrator, when he watched a mechanic service a car. One day he sang loudly as he crossed the lobby of the new Holiday Inn, smiling and gesturing at people as though he had been hired to sing for their pleasure. But nobody thought that was necessarily a hint of derangement, either—especially since Dwayne owned a piece of the Inn.
A black bus boy and a black waiter discussed this singing. “Listen at him sing,” said the bus boy.
“If I owned what he owns, I’d sing, too,” the waiter replied. •••
The only person who said out loud that Dwayne was going crazy was Dwayne’s white sales manager at the Pontiac agency, who was Harry LeSabre. A full week before Dwayne went of this rocker, Harry said to Francine Pefko, “Something has come over Dwayne. He used to be so charming. I don’t find him so charming anymore.”
Harry knew Dwayne better than did any other man. He had been with Dwayne for twenty years. He came to work for him when the agency was right on the edge of the Nigger part of town. A Nigger was a human being who was black.
“I know him the way a combat soldier knows his buddy,” said Harry. “We used to put our lives on the line every day, when the agency was down on Jefferson Street. We got held up on the average of fourteen times a year. And I tell you that the Dwayne of today is a Dwayne I never saw before.”
•••

It was true about the holdups. That was how Dwayne bought a Pontiac agency so cheaply. White people were the only people with money enough to buy new automobiles, except for a few black criminals, who always wanted Cadillacs. And white people were scared to go anywhere on Jefferson Street anymore.
•••
Here is where Dwayne got the money to buy the agency: He borrowed it from the Midland County National Bank. For collateral, he put up stock he owned in a company which was then called The Midland City Ordnance Company. It later became Barrytron, Limited. When Dwayne first got the stock, in the depths of the Great Depression, the company was called The Robo-Magic Corporation of America.
The name of the company kept changing through the years because the nature of its business changed so much. But its management hung on to the company’s original motto—for old time’s sake. The motto was this:
GOODBYE, BLUE MONDAY. •••
Listen:
Harry LeSabre said to Francine, “When a man has been in combat with another man, he gets so he can sense the slightest change in his buddy’s personality, and Dwayne has changed. You ask Vernon Garr.”
Vernon Garr was a white mechanic who was the only other employee who had been with Dwayne before Dwayne moved the agency out to the Interstate. As it happened, Vernon was having trouble at home. His wife, Mary, was a schizophrenic, so Vernon hadn’t noticed whether Dwayne had changed or not. Vernon’s wife believed that Vernon was trying to turn her brains into plutonium.
•••
Harry LeSabre was entitled to talk about combat. He had been in actual combat in a war. Dwayne hadn’t been in combat. He was a civilian employee of the United States Army Air Corps during the Second World War, though. One time he got to paint a message on a five-hundred-pound bomb which

was going to be dropped on Hamburg, Germany. This was it:
•••
“Harry,” said Francine, “everybody is entitled to a few bad days. Dwayne has fewer than anybody I know, so when he does have one like today, some people are hurt and surprised. They shouldn’t be. He’s human like anybody else.”
“But why should he single out me?” Harry wanted to know. He was right: Dwayne had singled him out for astonishing insults and abuse that day. Everybody else still found Dwayne nothing but charming.
Later on, of course, Dwayne would assault all sorts of people, even three strangers from Erie, Pennsylvania, who had never been to Midland City before. But Harry was an isolated victim now.
•••
“Why me?” said Harry. This was a common question in Midland City. People were always asking that as they were loaded into ambulances after accidents of various kinds, or arrested for disorderly conduct, or burglarized, or socked in the nose and so on: “Why me?”
“Probably because he felt that you were man enough and friend enough to put up with him on one of his few bad days,” said Francine.
“How would you like it if he insulted your clothes?” said Harry. This is what Dwayne had done to him: insulted his clothes.
“I would remember that he was the best employer in town,” said Francine. This was true. Dwayne paid high wages. He had profit-sharing and Christmas bonuses at the end of every year. He was the first automobile dealer in his part of the State to offer his employees Blue Cross-Blue Shield,
 
which was health insurance. He had a retirement plan which was superior to every retirement plan in the city with the exception of the one at Barrytron. His office door was always open to any employee who had troubles to discuss, whether they had to do with the automobile business or not.
For instance, on the day he insulted Harry’s clothing, he also spent two hours with Vernon Garr, discussing the hallucinations Vernon’s wife was having. “She sees things that aren’t there,” said Vernon.
“She needs rest, Vern,” said Dwayne.
“Maybe I’m going crazy, too,” said Vernon. “Christ, I go home and I talk for hours to my fucking dog.”
“That makes two of us,” said Dwayne. •••
Here is the scene between Harry and Dwayne which upset Harry so much:
Harry went into Dwayne’s office right after Vernon left. He expected no trouble, because he had never had any serious trouble with Dwayne.
“How’s my old combat buddy today?” he said to Dwayne.
“As good as can be expected,” said Dwayne. “Anything special bothering you?”
“No,” said Harry.
“Vern’s wife thinks Vern is trying to turn her brains into plutonium,” said Dwayne.
“What’s plutonium?” said Harry, and so on. They rambled along, and Harry made up a problem for himself just to keep the conversation lively. He said he was sad sometimes that he had no children. “But I’m glad in a way, too,” he went on. “I mean, why should I contribute to overpopulation?”
Dwayne didn’t say anything.
“Maybe we should have adopted one,” said Harry, “but it’s too late now. And the old lady and me—we have a good time just horsing around with ourselves. What do we need a kid for?”
It was after the mention of adoption that Dwayne blew up. He himself had been adopted—by a couple who had moved to Midland City from West

Virginia in order to make big money as factory workers in the First World War. Dwayne’s real mother was a spinster school teacher who wrote sentimental poetry and claimed to be descended from Richard the Lion- Hearted, who was a king. His real father was an itinerant typesetter, who seduced his mother by setting her poems in type. He didn’t sneak them into a newspaper or anything. It was enough for her that they were set in type.
She was a defective child-bearing machine. She destroyed herself automatically while giving birth to Dwayne. The printer disappeared. He was a disappearing machine.
•••
It may be that the subject of adoption caused an unfortunate chemical reaction in Dwayne’s head. At any rate, Dwayne suddenly snarled this at Harry: “Harry, why don’t you get a bunch of cotton waste from Vern Garr, soak it in Blue Sunoco, and burn up your fucking wardrobe? You make me feel like I’m at Watson Brothers.” Watson Brothers was the name of the funeral parlor for white people who were at least moderately well-to-do. Blue Sunoco was a brand of gasoline.
Harry was startled, and then pain set in. Dwayne had never said anything about his clothes in all the years he’d known him. The clothes were conservative and neat, in Harry’s opinion. His shirts were white. His ties were black or navy blue. His suits were gray or dark blue. His shoes and socks were black.
“Listen, Harry,” said Dwayne, and his expression was mean, “Hawaiian Week is coming up, and I’m absolutely serious: burn your clothes and get new ones, or apply for work at Watson Brothers. Have yourself embalmed while you’re at it.”
•••
Harry couldn’t do anything but let his mouth hang open. The Hawaiian Week Dwayne had mentioned was a sales promotion scheme which involved making the agency look as much like the Hawaiian Islands as possible. People who bought new or used cars, or had repairs done in excess of five hundred dollars during the week would be entered automatically in a lottery. Three lucky people would each win a free, all-expenses-paid trip to Las

Vegas and San Francisco and then Hawaii for a party of two.
“I don’t mind that you have the name of a Buick, Harry, when you’re supposed to be selling Pontiacs—” Dwayne went on. He was referring to the fact that the Buick division of General Motors put out a model called the Le Sabre. “You can’t help that.” Dwayne now patted the top of his desk softly. This was somehow more menacing than if he had pounded the desk with his fist. “But there are a hell of a lot of things you can change, Harry. There’s a long weekend coming up. I expect to see some big changes in you when I come to work on Tuesday morning.”
The weekend was extra-long because the coming Monday was a national holiday, Veterans’ Day. It was in honor of people who had served their country in uniform.
•••
“When we started selling Pontiacs, Harry,” said Dwayne, “the car was sensible transportation for school teachers and grandmothers and maiden aunts.” This was true. “Perhaps you haven’t noticed, Harry, but the Pontiac has now become a glamorous, youthful adventure for people who want a kick out of life! And you dress and act like this was a mortuary! Look at yourself in a mirror, Harry, and ask yourself, ‘Who could ever associate a man like this with a Pontiac?’”
Harry LeSabre was too choked up to point out to Dwayne that, no matter what he looked like, he was generally acknowledged to be one of the most effective sales managers for Pontiac not only in the State, but in the entire Middle West. Pontiac was the best-selling automobile in the Midland City area, despite the fact that it was not a low-price car. It was a medium-price car.
•••
Dwayne Hoover told poor Harry LeSabre that the Hawaiian Festival, only a long weekend away, was Harry’s golden opportunity to loosen up, to have some fun, to encourage other people to have some fun, too.
“Harry,” said Dwayne. “I have some news for you: modern science has given us a whole lot of wonderful new colors, with strange, exciting names

like red!, orange!, green!, and pink!, Harry. We’re not stuck any more with just black, gray and white! Isn’t that good news, Harry? And the State Legislature has just announced that it is no longer a crime to smile during working hours, Harry, and I have the personal promise of the Governor that never again will anybody be sent to the Sexual Offenders’ Wing of the Adult Correctional Institution for telling a joke!”
•••
Harry LeSabre might have weathered all this with only minor damage, if only Harry hadn’t been a secret transvestite. On weekends he liked to dress up in women’s clothing, and not drab clothing, either. Harry and his wife would pull down the window blinds, and Harry would turn into a bird of paradise.
Nobody but Harry’s wife knew his secret.
When Dwayne razzed him about the clothes he wore to work, and then mentioned the Sexual Offenders’ Wing of the Adult Correctional Institution at Shepherdstown, Harry had to suspect that his secret was out. And it wasn’t merely a comical secret, either. Harry could be arrested for what he did on weekends. He could be fined up to three thousand dollars and sentenced to as much as five years at hard labor in the Sexual Offenders’ Wing of the Adult Correctional Institution at Shepherdstown.
•••
So poor Harry spent a wretched Veterans’ Day weekend after that. But Dwayne spent a worse one.
Here is what the last night of that weekend was like for Dwayne: his bad chemicals rolled him out of bed. They made him dress as though there were some sort of emergency with which he had to deal. This was in the wee hours. Veterans’ Day had ended at the stroke of twelve.
Dwayne’s bad chemicals made him take a loaded thirty-eight caliber revolver from under his pillow and stick it in his mouth. This was a tool whose only purpose was to make holes in human beings. It looked like this:

 In Dwayne’s part of the planet, anybody who wanted one could get one down at his local hardware store. Policemen all had them. So did the criminals. So did the people caught in between.
Criminals would point guns at people and say, “Give me all your money,” and the people usually would. And policemen would point their guns at criminals and say, “Stop” or whatever the situation called for, and the criminals usually would. Sometimes they wouldn’t. Sometimes a wife would get so mad at her husband that she would put a hole in him with a gun. Sometimes a husband would get so mad at his wife that he would put a hole in her. And so on.
In the same week Dwayne Hoover ran amok, a fourteen-year-old Midland City boy put holes in his mother and father because he didn’t want to show them the bad report card he had brought home. His lawyer planned to enter a plea of temporary insanity, which meant that at the time of the shooting the boy was unable to distinguish the difference between right and wrong.
•••
Sometimes people would put holes in famous people so they could be at least fairly famous, too. Sometimes people would get on airplanes which were supposed to fly to someplace, and they would offer to put holes in the pilot and copilot unless they flew the airplane to someplace else.
•••
Dwayne held the muzzle of his gun in his mouth for a while. He tasted oil. The gun was loaded and cocked. There were neat little metal packages containing charcoal, potassium nitrate and sulphur only inches from his

brains. He had only to trip a lever, and the powder would turn to gas. The gas would blow a chunk of lead down a tube and through Dwayne’s brains.
But Dwayne elected to shoot up one of his tiled bathrooms instead. He put chunks of lead through his toilet and a washbasin and a bathtub enclosure. There was a picture of a flamingo sandblasted on the glass of the bathtub enclosure. It looked like this:
Dwayne shot the flamingo.
He snarled at his recollection of it afterwards. Here is what he snarled: “Dumb fucking bird.”
•••
Nobody heard the shots. All the houses in the neighborhood were too well insulated for sound ever to get in or out. A sound wanting in or out of Dwayne’s dreamhouse, for instance, had to go through an inch and a half of plasterboard, a polystyrene vapor barrier, a sheet of aluminum foil, a three- inch airspace, another sheet of aluminum foil, a three-inch blanket of glass wool, another sheet of aluminum foil, one inch of insulating board made of pressed sawdust, tarpaper, one inch of wood sheathing, more tarpaper, and
 
then aluminum siding which was hollow. The space in the siding was filled with a miracle insulating material developed for use on rockets to the Moon.
•••
Dwayne turned on the floodlights around his house, and he played basketball on the blacktop apron outside his five-car garage.
Dwayne’s dog Sparky hid in the basement when Dwayne shot up the bathroom. But he came out now. Sparky watched Dwayne play basketball.
“You and me, Sparky,” said Dwayne. And so on. He sure loved that dog.
Nobody saw him playing basketball. He was screened from his neighbors by trees and shrubs and a high cedar fence.
•••
He put the basketball away, and he climbed into a black Plymouth Fury he had taken in trade the day before. The Plymouth was a Chrysler product, and Dwayne himself sold General Motors products. He had decided to drive the Plymouth for a day or two in order to keep abreast of the competition.
As he backed out of his driveway, he thought it important to explain to his neighbors why he was in a Plymouth Fury, so he yelled out the window: “Keeping abreast of the competition!” He blew his horn.
•••
Dwayne zoomed down Old County Road and onto the Interstate, which he had all to himself. He swerved into Exit Ten at a high rate of speed, slammed into a guardrail, spun around and around. He came out onto Union Avenue going backwards, jumped a curb, and came to a stop in a vacant lot. Dwayne owned the lot.
Nobody saw or heard anything. Nobody lived in the area. A policeman was supposed to cruise by about once every hour or so, but he was cooping in an alley behind a Western Electric warehouse about two miles away. Cooping was police slang for sleeping on the job.
•••

Dwayne stayed in his vacant lot for a while. He played the radio. All the Midland City stations were asleep for the night, but Dwayne picked up a country music station in West Virginia, which offered him ten different kinds of flowering shrubs and five fruit trees for six dollars, C.O.D.
“Sounds good to me,” said Dwayne. He meant it. Almost all the messages which were sent and received in his country, even the telepathic ones, had to do with buying or selling some damn thing. They were like lullabies to Dwayne.

5
WHILE DWAYNE HOOVER listened to West Virginia, Kilgore Trout tried to fall
asleep in a movie theater in New York City. It was much cheaper than a night in a hotel. Trout had never done it before, but he knew sleeping in movie houses was the sort of thing really dirty old men did. He wished to arrive in Midland City as the dirtiest of all old men. He was supposed to take part in a symposium out there entitled “The Future of the American Novel in the Age of McLuhan.” He wished to say at that symposium, “I don’t know who McLuhan is, but I know what it’s like to spend the night with a lot of other dirty old men in a movie theater in New York City. Could we talk about that?”
He wished to say, too, “Does this McLuhan, whoever he is, have anything to say about the relationship between wide-open beavers and the sales of books?”
•••
Trout had come down from Cohoes late that afternoon. He had since visited many pornography shops and a shirt store. He had bought two of his own books, Plague on Wheels and Now It Can Be Told, a magazine containing a short story of his, and a tuxedo shirt. The name of the magazine was Black Garterbelt. The tuxedo shirt had a cascade of ruffles down its bosom. On the shirt salesman’s advice, Trout had also bought a packaged ensemble consisting of a cumberbund, a boutonnière, and a bow tie. They were all the color of tangerines.
These goodies were all in his lap, along with a crackling brown paper parcel containing his tuxedo, six new pairs of jockey shorts, six new pairs of socks, his razor and a new toothbrush. Trout hadn’t owned a toothbrush for years.
 
•••
The jackets of Plague on Wheels and Now It Can Be Told both promised plenty of wide-open beavers inside. The picture on the cover of Now It Can Be Told, which was the book which would turn Dwayne Hoover into a homicidal maniac, showed a college professor being undressed by a group of naked sorority girls. A library tower could be seen through a window in the sorority house. It was daytime outside, and there was a clock in the tower. The clock looked like this:
The professor was stripped down to his candy-striped underwear shorts and his socks and garters and his mortarboard, which was a hat which looked like this:
There was absolutely nothing about a professor or a sorority or a university anywhere in the body of the book. The book was in the form of a long letter from the Creator of the Universe to the only creature in the
  
Universe who had free will.
•••
As for the story in Black Garterbelt magazine: Trout had no idea that it had been accepted for publication. It had been accepted years ago, apparently, for the date on the magazine was April, 1962. Trout found it by chance in a bin of tame old magazines near the front of the store. They were underpants magazines.
When he bought the magazine, the cashier supposed Trout was drunk or feeble-minded. All he was getting, the cashier thought, was pictures of women in their underpants. Their legs were apart, all right, but they had on underpants, so they were certainly no competition for the wide-open beavers on sale in the back of the store.
“I hope you enjoy it,” said the cashier to Trout. He meant that he hoped Trout would find some pictures he could masturbate to, since that was the only point of all the books and magazines.
“It’s for an arts festival,” said Trout. •••
As for the story itself, it was entitled “The Dancing Fool.” Like so many Trout stories, it was about a tragic failure to communicate.
Here was the plot: A flying saucer creature named Zog arrived on Earth to explain how wars could be prevented and how cancer could be cured. He brought the information from Margo, a planet where the natives conversed by means of farts and tap dancing.
Zog landed at night in Connecticut. He had no sooner touched down than he saw a house on fire. He rushed into the house, farting and tap dancing, warning the people about the terrible danger they were in. The head of the house brained Zog with a golfclub.
•••
The movie theater where Trout sat with all his parcels in his lap showed nothing but dirty movies. The music was soothing. Phantasms of a young

man and a young woman sucked harmlessly on one another’s soft apertures on the silver screen.
And Trout made up a new novel while he sat there. It was about an Earthling astronaut who arrived on a planet where all the animal and plant life had been killed by pollution, except for humanoids. The humanoids ate food made from petroleum and coal.
They gave a feast for the astronaut, whose name was Don. The food was terrible. The big topic of conversation was censorship. The cities were blighted with motion picture theaters which showed nothing but dirty movies. The humanoids wished they could put them out of business somehow, but without interfering with free speech.
They asked Don if dirty movies were a problem on Earth, too, and Don said, “Yes.” They asked him if the movies were really dirty, and Don replied, “As dirty as movies could get.”
This was a challenge to the humanoids, who were sure their dirty movies could beat anything on Earth. So everybody piled into air-cushion vehicles, and they floated to a dirty movie house downtown.
It was intermission time when they got there, so Don had some time to think about what could possibly be dirtier than what he had already seen on Earth. He became sexually excited even before the house lights went down. The women in his party were all twittery and squirmy.
So the theater went dark and the curtains opened. At first there wasn’t any picture. There were slurps and moans from loudspeakers. Then the picture itself appeared. It was a high quality film of a male humanoid eating what looked like a pear. The camera zoomed in on his lips and tongue and teeth, which glistened with saliva. He took his time about eating the pear. When the last of it had disappeared into his slurpy mouth, the camera focussed on his Adam’s apple. His Adam’s apple bobbed obscenely. He belched contentedly, and then these words appeared on the screen, but in the language of the planet:
THE END •••
It was all faked, of course. There weren’t any pears anymore. And the eating of a pear wasn’t the main event of the evening anyway. It was a short

subject, which gave the members of the audience time to settle down.
Then the main feature began. It was about a male and a female and their two children, and their dog and their cat. They ate steadily for an hour and a half—soup, meat, biscuits, butter, vegetables, mashed potatoes and gravy, fruit, candy, cake, pie. The camera rarely strayed more than a foot from their glistening lips and their bobbing Adam’s apples. And then the father put the cat and dog on the table, so they could take part in the orgy, too.
After a while, the actors couldn’t eat any more. They were so stuffed that they were goggle-eyed. They could hardly move. They said they didn’t think they could eat again for a week, and so on. They cleared the table slowly. They went waddling out into the kitchen, and they dumped about thirty pounds of leftovers into a garbage can.
The audience went wild.
•••
When Don and his friends left the theater, they were accosted by humanoid whores, who offered them eggs and oranges and milk and butter and peanuts and so on. The whores couldn’t actually deliver these goodies, of course.
The humanoids told Don that if he went home with a whore, she would cook him a meal of petroleum and coal products at fancy prices.
And then, while he ate them, she would talk dirty about how fresh and full of natural juices the food was, even though the food was fake.

6
DWAYNE HOOVER sat in the used Plymouth Fury in his own vacant lot for an
hour, listening to West Virginia. He was told about health insurance for pennies a day, about how to get better performance from his car. He was told what to do about constipation. He was offered a Bible which had everything that God or Jesus had actually said out loud printed in red capital letters. He was offered a plant which would attract and eat disease-carrying insects in his home.
All this was stored away in Dwayne’s memory, in case he should need it later on. He had all kinds of stuff in there.
•••
While Dwayne sat there so alone, the oldest inhabitant of Midland City was dying in the County Hospital, at the foot of Fairchild Boulevard, which was nine miles away. She was Mary Young. She was one hundred and eight years old. She was black. Mary Young’s parents had been human slaves in Kentucky.
There was a tiny connection between Mary Young and Dwayne Hoover. She did the laundry for Dwayne’s family for a few months, back when Dwayne was a little boy. She told Bible stories and stories about slavery to little Dwayne. She told him about a public hanging of a white man she had seen in Cincinnati, when she was a little girl.
•••
A black intern at the County Hospital now watched Mary Young die of pneumonia.
The intern did not know her. He had been in Midland City for only a
 
week. He wasn’t even a fellow-American, although he had taken his medical degree at Harvard. He was an Indaro. He was a Nigerian. His name was Cyprian Ukwende. He felt no kinship with Mary or with any American blacks. He felt kinship only with Indaros.
As she died, Mary was as alone on the planet as were Dwayne Hoover or Kilgore Trout. She had never reproduced. There were no friends or relatives to watch her die. So she spoke her very last words on the planet to Cyprian Ukwende. She did not have enough breath left to make her vocal cords buzz. She could only move her lips noiselessly.
Here is all she had to say about death: “Oh my, oh my.” •••
Like all Earthlings at the point of death, Mary Young sent faint reminders of herself to those who had known her. She released a small cloud of telepathic butterflies, and one of these brushed the cheek of Dwayne Hoover, nine miles away.
Dwayne heard a tired voice from somewhere behind his head, even though no one was back there. It said this to Dwayne: “Oh my, oh my.”
•••
Dwayne’s bad chemicals now made him put his car in gear. He drove out of the vacant lot, proceeded sedately down Union Avenue, which paralleled the Interstate.
He went past his principal place of business, which was Dwayne Hoover’s Exit Eleven Pontiac Village, and he turned into the parking lot of the new Holiday Inn next door. Dwayne owned a third of the Inn—in partnership with Midland City’s leading orthodontist, Dr. Alfred Maritimo, and Bill Miller, who was Chairman of the Parole Board at the Adult Correctional Institution at Shepherdstown, among other things.
Dwayne went up the Inn’s back steps to the roof without meeting anybody. There was a full moon. There were two full moons. The new Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts was a translucent sphere on stilts, and it was illuminated from the inside now—and it looked like a moon.

•••
Dwayne gazed over the sleeping city. He had been born there. He had spent the first three years of his life in an orphanage only two miles from where he stood. He had been adopted and educated there.
He owned not only the Pontiac agency and a piece of the new Holiday Inn. He owned three Burger Chefs, too, and five coin-operated car washes, and pieces of the Sugar Creek Drive-in Theatre, Radio Station WMCY, the Three Maples Par-Three Golf Course, and seventeen hundred shares of common stock in Barrytron, Limited, a local electronics firm. He owned dozens of vacant lots. He was on the Board of Directors of the Midland County National Bank.
But now Midland City looked unfamiliar and frightening to Dwayne. “Where am I?” he said.
He even forgot that his wife Celia had committed suicide, for instance, by eating Drāno—a mixture of sodium hydroxide and aluminum flakes, which was meant to clear drains. Celia became a small volcano, since she was composed of the same sorts of substances which commonly clogged drains.
Dwayne even forgot that his only child, a son, had grown up to be a notorious homosexual. His name was George, but everybody called him “Bunny.” He played piano in the cocktail lounge of the new Holiday Inn.
“Where am I?” said Dwayne.

7
KILGORE TROUT tookaleakinthemen’sroomoftheNewYorkCitymovie
house. There was a sign on the wall next to the roller towel. It advertised a massage parlor called The Sultan’s Harem. Massage parlors were something new and exciting in New York. Men could go in there and photograph naked women, or they could paint the women’s naked bodies with water-soluble paints. Men could be rubbed all over by a woman until their penises squirted jism into Turkish towels.
“It’s a full life and a merry one,” said Kilgore Trout.
There was a message written in pencil on the tiles by the roller towel. This was it:
  Trout plundered his pockets for a pen or pencil. He had an answer to the question. But he had nothing to write with, not even a burnt match. So he left the question unanswered, but here is what he would have written, if he had found anything to write with:
To be
the eyes
and ears
and conscience
of the Creator of the Universe, you fool.

When Trout headed back for his seat in the theater, he played at being the eyes and ears and conscience of the Creator of the Universe. He sent messages by telepathy to the Creator, wherever He was. He reported that the men’s room had been clean as a whistle. “The carpeting under my feet,” he signaled from the lobby, “is springy and new. I think it must be some miracle fiber. It’s blue. You know what I mean by blue?” And so on.
When he got to the auditorium itself, the house lights were on. Nobody was there but the manager, who was also the ticket-taker and the bouncer and the janitor. He was sweeping filth from between the seats. He was a middle- aged white man. “No more fun tonight, grandfather,” he said to Trout. “Time to go home.”
Trout didn’t protest. Neither did he leave immediately. He examined a green enameled steel box in the back of the auditorium. It contained the projector and the sound system and the films. There was a wire that led from the box to a plug in the wall. There was a hole in the front of the box. That was how the pictures got out. On the side of the box was a simple switch. It looked like this:
It intrigued Trout to know that he had only to flick the switch, and the people would start fucking and sucking again.
“Good night, Grandfather,” said the manager pointedly.
Trout took his leave of the machine reluctantly. He said this about it to
the manager: “It fills such a need, this machine, and it’s so easy to operate.” •••
 
As Trout departed, he sent this telepathic message to the Creator of the Universe, serving as His eyes and ears and conscience: “Am headed for Forty-second Street now. How much do you already know about Forty- second Street?”

8
TROUT WANDERED out onto the sidewalk of Forty-second Street. It was a
dangerous place to be. The whole city was dangerous—because of chemicals and the uneven distribution of wealth and so on. A lot of people were like Dwayne: they created chemicals in their own bodies which were bad for their heads. But there were thousands upon thousands of other people in the city who bought bad chemicals and ate them or sniffed them—or injected them into their veins with devices which looked like this:
Sometimes they even stuffed bad chemicals up their assholes. Their assholes looked like this:
   •••
People took such awful chances with chemicals and their bodies because they wanted the quality of their lives to improve. They lived in ugly places where there were only ugly things to do. They didn’t own doodley-squat, so they couldn’t improve their surroundings. So they did their best to make their insides beautiful instead.

The results had been catastrophic so far—suicide, theft, murder, and insanity and so on. But new chemicals were coming onto the market all the time. Twenty feet away from Trout there on Forty-second Street, a fourteen- year-old white boy lay unconscious in the doorway of a pornography store. He had swallowed a half pint of a new type of paint remover which had gone on sale for the first time only the day before. He had also swallowed two pills which were intended to prevent contagious abortion in cattle, which was called Bang’s disease.
•••
Trout was petrified there on Forty-second Street. It had given him a life not worth living, but I had also given him an iron will to live. This was a common combination on the planet Earth.
The theater manager came out and locked the door behind him.
And two young black prostitutes materialized from nowhere. They asked Trout and the manager if they would like to have some fun. They were cheerful and unafraid—because of a tube of Norwegian hemorrhoid remedy which they had eaten about half an hour before. The manufacturer had never intended the stuff to be eaten. People were supposed to squirt it up their assholes.
These were country girls. They had grown up in the rural south of the nation, where their ancestors had been used as agricultural machinery. The white farmers down there weren’t using machines made out of meat anymore, though, because machines made out of metal were cheaper and more reliable, and required simpler homes.
So the black machines had to get out of there, or starve to death. They came to cities because everyplace else had signs like this on the fences and trees:

 •••
Kilgore Trout once wrote a story called “This Means You.” It was set in the Hawaiian Islands, the place where the lucky winners of Dwayne Hoover’s contest in Midland City were supposed to go. Every bit of land on the islands was owned by only about forty people, and, in the story, Trout had those people decide to exercise their property rights to the full. They put up no trespassing signs on everything.
This created terrible problems for the million other people on the islands. The law of gravity required that they stick somewhere on the surface. Either that, or they could go out into the water and bob offshore.
But then the Federal Government came through with an emergency program. It gave a big balloon full of helium to every man, woman and child who didn’t own property.
•••
There was a cable with a harness on it dangling from each balloon. With the help of the balloons, Hawaiians could go on inhabiting the islands without always sticking to things other people owned.
•••
The prostitutes worked for a pimp now. He was splendid and cruel. He was a god to them. He took their free will away from them, which was perfectly all right. They didn’t want it anyway. It was as though they had surrendered themselves to Jesus, for instance, so they could live unselfishly

and trustingly—except that they had surrendered to a pimp instead.
Their childhoods were over. They were dying now. Earth was a tinhorn planet as far as they were concerned.
When Trout and the theater manager, two tinhorns, said they didn’t want any tinhorn fun, the dying children sauntered off, their feet sticking to the planet, coming unstuck, then sticking again. They disappeared around a corner. Trout, the eyes and ears of the Creator of the Universe, sneezed.
•••
“God bless you,” said the manager. This was a fully automatic response many Americans had to hearing a person sneeze.
“Thank you,” said Trout. Thus a temporary friendship was formed.
Trout said he hoped to get safely to a cheap hotel. The manager said he hoped, to get to the subway station on Times Square. So they walked together, encouraged by the echoes of their footsteps from the building façades.
The manager told Trout a little about what the planet looked like to him. It was a place where he had a wife and two kids, he said. They didn’t know he ran a theater which showed blue movies. They thought he was doing consulting work as an engineer so late at night. He said that the planet didn’t have much use for engineers his age anymore. It had adored them once.
“Hard times,” said Trout.
The manager told of being in on the development of a miraculous insulating material, which had been used on rocket ships to the Moon. This was, in fact, the same material which gave the aluminum siding of Dwayne Hoover’s dream house in Midland City its miraculous insulating qualities.
The manager reminded Trout of what the first man to set foot on the Moon had said: “One small step for man, one great leap for mankind.”
“Thrilling words,” said Trout. He looked over his shoulder, perceived that they were being followed by a white Oldsmobile Toronado with a black vinyl roof. This four hundred horsepower, front-wheel drive vehicle was burbling along at about three miles an hour, ten feet behind them and close to the curb.

That was the last thing Trout remembered—seeing the Oldsmobile back there.
•••
The next thing he knew, he was on his hands and knees on a handball court underneath the Queensboro Bridge at Fifty-ninth Street, with the East River nearby. His trousers and underpants were around his ankles. His money was gone. His parcels were scattered around him—the tuxedo, the new shirt, the books. Blood seeped from one ear.
The police caught him in the act of pulling up his trousers. They dazzled him with a spotlight as he leaned against the backboard of the handball court and fumbled foolishly with his belt and the buttons on his fly. The police supposed that they had caught him committing some public nuisance, had caught him working with an old man’s limited palette of excrement and alcohol.
He wasn’t quite penniless. There was a ten-dollar bill in the watch pocket of his pants.
•••
It was determined at a hospital that Trout was not seriously hurt. He was taken to a police station, where he was questioned. All he could say was that he had been kidnapped by pure evil in a white Oldsmobile. The police wanted to know how many people were in the car, their ages, their sexes, the colors of their skins, their manners of speech.
“For all I know, they may not even have been Earthlings,” said Trout. “For all I know, that car may have been occupied by an intelligent gas from Pluto.”
•••
Trout said this so innocently, but his comment turned out to be the first germ in an epidemic of mind-poisoning. Here is how the disease was spread: a reporter wrote a story for the New York Post the next day, and he led off with the quotation from Trout.
The story appeared under this headline:

PLUTO BANDITS KIDNAP PAIR
Trout’s name was given as Kilmer Trotter, incidentally, address unknown. His age was given as eighty-two.
Other papers copied the story, rewrote it some. They all hung on to the joke about Pluto, spoke knowingly of The Pluto Gang. And reporters asked police for any new information on The Pluto Gang, so police went looking for information on The Pluto Gang.
•••
So New Yorkers, who had so many nameless terrors, were easily taught to fear something seemingly specific—The Pluto Gang. They bought new locks for their doors and gratings for their windows, to keep out The Pluto Gang. They stopped going to theaters at night, for fear of The Pluto Gang.
Foreign newspapers spread the terror, ran articles on how persons thinking of visiting New York might keep to a certain few streets in Manhattan and stand a fair chance of avoiding The Pluto Gang.
•••
In one of New York City’s many ghettos for dark-skinned people, a group of Puerto Rican boys gathered together in the basement of an abandoned building. They were small, but they were numerous and volatile. They wished to become frightening, in order to defend themselves and their friends and families, something the police wouldn’t do. They also wanted to drive the drug peddlers out of the neighborhood, and to get enough publicity, which was very important, to catch the attention of the Government, so that the Government would do a better job of picking up the garbage and so on.
One of them, José Mendoza, was a fairly good painter. So he painted the emblem of their new gang on the backs of the members’ jackets. This was it:

 
9
WHILE KILGORE TROUT was inadvertently poisoning the collective mind of New York City, Dwayne Hoover, the demented Pontiac dealer, was coming
down from the roof of his own Holiday Inn in the Middle West.
Dwayne went into the carpeted lobby of the place not long before sunrise, to ask for a room. As queer as the hour was, there was a man ahead of him, and a black one at that. This was Cyprian Ukwende, the Indaro, the physician from Nigeria, who was staying at the Inn until he could find a suitable apartment.
Dwayne awaited his turn humbly. He had forgotten that he was a co- owner of the Inn. As for staying at a place where black men stayed, Dwayne was philosophical. He experienced a sort of bittersweet happiness as he told himself, “Times change. Times change.”
•••
The night clerk was new. He did not know Dwayne. He had Dwayne fill out a registration in full. Dwayne, for his part, apologized for not knowing what the number of his license plate was. He felt guilty about that, even though he knew he had done nothing he should feel guilty about.
He was elated when the clerk let him have a room key. He had passed the test. And he adored his room. It was so new and cool and clean. It was so neutral! It was the brother of thousands upon thousands of rooms in Holiday Inns all over the world.
Dwayne Hoover might be confused as to what his life was all about, or what he should do with it next. But this much he has done correctly: He had delivered himself to an irreproachable container for a human being.
It awaited anybody. It awaited Dwayne.
 
Around the toilet seat was a band of paper like this, which he would have to remove before he used the toilet:
This loop of paper guaranteed Dwayne that he need have no fear that corkscrew-shaped little animals would crawl up his asshole and eat up his wiring. That was one less worry for Dwayne.
•••
There was a sign hanging on the inside doorknob, which Dwayne now hung on the outside doorknob. It looked like this:
  
Dwayne pulled open his floor-to-ceiling draperies for a moment. He saw the sign which announced the presence of the Inn to weary travelers on the Interstate. Here is what it looked like:
He closed his draperies. He adjusted the heating and ventilating system. He slept like a lamb.
A lamb was a young animal which was legendary for sleeping well on the planet Earth. It looked like this:
 
 
10
KILGORE TROUT was released by the Police Department of the City of New
York like a weightless thing—at two hours before dawn on the day after Veterans’ Day. He crossed the island of Manhattan from east to west in the company of Kleenex tissues and newspapers and soot.
He got a ride in a truck. It was hauling seventy-eight thousand pounds of Spanish olives. It picked him up at the mouth of the Lincoln Tunnel, which was named in honor of a man who had had the courage and imagination to make human slavery against the law in the United States of America. This was a recent innovation.
The slaves were simply turned loose without any property. They were easily recognizable. They were black. They were suddenly free to go exploring.
•••
The driver, who was white, told Trout that he would have to lie on the floor of the cab until they reached open country, since it was against the law for him to pick up hitchhikers.
•••
It was still dark when he told Trout he could sit up. They were crossing the poisoned marshes and meadows of New Jersey. The truck was a General Motors Astro-95 Diesel tractor, hooked up to a trailer forty feet long. It was so enormous that it made Trout feel that his head was about the size of a piece of bee-bee shot.
The driver said he used to be a hunter and a fisherman, long ago. It broke his heart when he imagined what the marshes and meadows had been
 
like only a hundred years before. “And when you think of the shit that most of these factories make—wash day products, catfood, pop—”
•••
He had a point. The planet was being destroyed by manufacturing processes, and what was being manufactured was lousy, by and large.
Then Trout made a good point, too. “Well,” he said, “I used to be a conservationist. I used to weep and wail about people shooting bald eagles with automatic shotguns from helicopters and all that, but I gave it up. There’s a river in Cleveland which is so polluted that it catches fire about once a year. That used to make me sick, but I laugh about it now. When some tanker accidently dumps its load in the ocean, and kills millions of birds and billions of fish, I say, ‘More power to Standard Oil,’ or whoever it was that dumped it.” Trout raised his arms in celebration. “‘Up your ass with Mobil gas,’” he said.
The driver was upset by this. “You’re kidding,” he said.
“I realized,” said Trout, “that God wasn’t any conservationist, so for anybody else to be one was sacrilegious and a waste of time. You ever see one of His volcanoes or tornadoes or tidal waves? Anybody ever tell you about the Ice Ages he arranges for every half-million years? How about Dutch Elm disease? There’s a nice conservation measure for you. That’s God, not man. Just about the time we got our rivers cleaned up, he’d probably have the whole galaxy go up like a celluloid collar. That’s what the Star of Bethlehem was, you know.”
“What was the Star of Bethlehem?” said the driver.
“A whole galaxy going up like a celluloid collar,” said Trout.
•••
The driver was impressed. “Come to think about it,” he said, “I don’t think there’s anything about conservation anywhere in the Bible.”
“Unless you want to count the story about the Flood,” said Trout. •••

They rode in silence for a while, and then the driver made another good point. He said he knew that his truck was turning the atmosphere into poison gas, and that the planet was being turned into pavement so his truck could go anywhere. “So I’m committing suicide,” he said.
“Don’t worry about it,” said Trout.
“My brother is even worse,” the driver went on. “He works in a factory that makes chemicals for killing plants and trees in Viet Nam.” Viet Nam was a country where America was trying to make people stop being communists by dropping things on them from airplanes. The chemicals he mentioned were intended to kill all the foliage, so it would be harder for communists to hide from airplanes.
“Don’t worry about it,” said Trout.
“In the long run, he’s committing suicide,” said the driver. “Seems like the only kind of job an American can get these days is committing suicide in some way.”
“Good point,” said Trout.
•••
“I can’t tell if you’re serious or not,” said the driver.
“I won’t know myself until I find out whether life is serious or not,” said Trout. “It’s dangerous, I know, and it can hurt a lot. That doesn’t necessarily mean it’s serious, too.”
•••
After Trout became famous, of course, one of the biggest mysteries about him was whether he was kidding or not. He told one persistent questioner that he always crossed his fingers when he was kidding.
“And please note,” he went on, “that when I gave you that priceless piece of information, my fingers were crossed.”
And so on.
He was a pain in the neck in a lot of ways. The truck driver got sick of him after an hour or two. Trout used the silence to make up an anticonservation story he called “Gilgongo!”

“Gilgongo!” was about a planet which was unpleasant because there was too much creation going on.
The story began with a big party in honor of a man who had wiped out an entire species of darling little panda bears. He had devoted his life to this. Special plates were made for the party, and the guests got to take them home as souvenirs. There was a picture of a little bear on each one, and the date of the party. Underneath the picture was the word:
GILGONGO!
In the language of the planet, that meant “Extinct!” •••
People were glad that the bears were gilgongo, because there were too many species on the planet already, and new ones were coming into being almost every hour. There was no way anybody could prepare for the bewildering diversity of creatures and plants he was likely to encounter.
The people were doing their best to cut down on the number of species, so that life could be more predictable. But Nature was too creative for them. All life on the planet was suffocated at last by a living blanket one hundred feet thick. The blanket was composed of passenger pigeons and eagles and Bermuda Erns and whooping cranes.
•••
“At least it’s olives,” the driver said.
“What?” said Trout.
“Lots worse things we could be hauling than olives.”
“Right,” said Trout. He had forgotten that the main thing they were doing was moving seventy-eight thousand pounds of olives to Tulsa, Oklahoma.
•••
The driver talked about politics some.
Trout couldn’t tell one politician from another one. They were all

formlessly enthusiastic chimpanzees to him. He wrote a story one time about an optimistic chimpanzee who became President of the United States. He called it “Hail to the Chief.”
The chimpanzee wore a little blue blazer with brass buttons, and with the seal of the President of the United States sewed to the breast pocket. It looked like this:
 Everywhere he went, bands would play “Hail to the Chief” The chimpanzee loved it. He would bounce up and down.
•••
They stopped at a diner. Here is what the sign in front of the diner said:
 So they ate.

Trout spotted an idiot who was eating, too. The idiot was a white male adult—in the care of a white female nurse. The idiot couldn’t talk much, and he had a lot of trouble feeding himself. The nurse put a bib around his neck.
But he certainly had a wonderful appetite. Trout watched him shovel waffles and pork sausage into his mouth, watched him guzzle orange juice and milk. Trout marveled at what a big animal the idiot was. The idiot’s happiness was fascinating, too, as he stoked himself with calories which would get him through yet another day.
Trout said this to himself: “Stoking up for another day.” •••
“Excuse me,” said the truck driver to Trout, “I’ve got to take a leak.” “Back where I come from,” said Trout, “that means you’re going to steal
a mirror. We call mirrors leaks.”
“I never heard that before,” said the driver. He repeated the word: “Leaks.” He pointed to a mirror on a cigarette machine. “You call that a leak?”
“Doesn’t it look like a leak to you?” said Trout.
“No,” said the driver. “Where did you say you were from?”
“I was born in Bermuda,” said Trout.
About a week later, the driver would tell his wife that mirrors were called leaks in Bermuda, and she would tell her friends.
•••
When Trout followed the driver back to the truck, he took his first good look at their form of transportation from a distance, saw it whole. There was a message written on the side of it in bright orange letters which were eight feet high. This was it:
 
Trout wondered what a child who was just learning to read would make of a message like that. The child would suppose that the message was terrifically important, since somebody had gone to the trouble of writing it in letters so big.
And then, pretending to be a child by the roadside, he read the message on the side of another truck. This was it:
 
11
DWAYNE HOOVER slept until ten at the new Holiday Inn. He was much
refreshed. He had a Number Five Breakfast in the popular restaurant of the Inn, which was the Tally-Ho Room. The drapes were drawn at night. They were wide open now. They let the sunshine in.
At the next table, also alone, was Cyprian Ukwende, the Indaro, the Nigerian. He was reading the classified ads in the Midland City Bugle- Observer. He needed a cheap place to live. The Midland County General Hospital was footing his bills at the Inn while he looked around, and they were getting restless about that.
He needed a woman, too, or a bunch of women who would fuck him hundreds of times a week, because he was so full of lust and jism all the time. And he ached to be with his Indaro relatives. Back home, he had six hundred relatives he knew by name.
Ukwende’s face was impassive as he ordered the Number Three Breakfast with whole-wheat toast. Behind his mask was a young man in the terminal stages of nostalgia and lover’s nuts.
•••
Dwayne Hoover, six feet away, gazed out at the busy, sunny Interstate Highway. He knew where he was. There was a familiar moat between the parking lot of the Inn and the Interstate, a concrete trough which the engineers had built to contain Sugar Creek. Next came a familiar resilient steel barrier which prevented cars and trucks from tumbling into Sugar Creek. Next came the three familiar west-bound lanes, and then the familiar grassy median divider. After that came the three familiar east-bound lanes, and then another familiar steel barrier. After that came the familiar Will Fairchild Memorial Airport—and then the familiar farmlands beyond.
 
•••
It was certainly flat out there—flat city, flat township, flat county, flat state. When Dwayne was a little boy, he had supposed that almost everybody lived in places that were treeless and flat. He imagined that oceans and mountains and forests were mainly sequestered in state and national parks. In the third grade, little Dwayne scrawled an essay which argued in favor of creating a national park at a bend in Sugar Creek, the only significant surface water within eight miles of Midland City.
Dwayne said the name of that familiar surface water to himself now, silently: “Sugar Creek.”
•••
Sugar Creek was only two inches deep and fifty yards wide at the bend, where little Dwayne thought the park should be. Now they had put the Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts there instead. It was beautiful.
Dwayne fiddled with his lapel for a moment, felt a badge pinned there. He unpinned it, having no recollection of what it said. It was a boost for the Arts Festival, which would begin that evening. All over town people were wearing badges like Dwayne’s. Here is what the badges said:
Sugar Creek flooded now and then. Dwayne remembered about that. In a land so flat, flooding was a queerly pretty thing for water to do. Sugar Creek brimmed over silently, formed a vast mirror in which children might
 
safely play.
The mirror showed the citizens the shape of the valley they lived in, demonstrated that they were hill people who inhabited slopes rising one inch for every mile that separated them from Sugar Creek.
Dwayne silently said the name of the water again: “Sugar Creek.” •••
Dwayne finished his breakfast, and he dared to suppose that he was no longer mentally diseased, that he had been cured by a simple change of residence, by a good night’s sleep.
His bad chemicals let him cross the lobby and then the cocktail lounge, which wasn’t open yet, without experiencing anything strange. But when he stepped out of the side door of the cocktail lounge, and onto the asphalt prairie which surrounded both his Inn and his Pontiac agency, he discovered that someone had turned the asphalt into a sort of trampoline.
It sank beneath Dwayne’s weight. It dropped Dwayne to well below street level, then slowly brought him only partway up again. He was in a shallow, rubbery dimple. Dwayne took another step in the direction of his automobile agency. He sank down again, came up again, and stood in a brand new dimple.
He gawked around for witnesses. There was only one. Cyprian Ukwende stood on the rim of the dimple, not sinking in. This was all Ukwende had to say, even though Dwayne’s situation was extraordinary:
“Nice day.”
•••
Dwayne progressed from dimple to dimple.
He blooped across the used car lot now.
He stopped in a dimple, looked up at another young black man. This one was polishing a maroon 1970 Buick Skylark convertible with a rag. The man wasn’t dressed for that sort of work. He wore a cheap blue suit and a white shirt and a black necktie. Also: he wasn’t merely polishing the car—he was burnishing it.

The young man did some more burnishing. Then he smiled at Dwayne blindingly, then he burnished the car again.
Here was the explanation: this young black man had just been paroled from the Adult Correctional Institution at Shepherdstown. He needed work right away, or he would starve to death. So he was showing Dwayne how hard a worker he was.
He had been in orphanages and youth shelters and prisons of one sort or another in the Midland City area since he was nine years old. He was now twenty-six.
•••
He was free at last!
•••
Dwayne thought the young man was an hallucination.
•••
The young man went back to burnishing the automobile. His life was not worth living. He had a feeble will to survive. He thought the planet was terrible, that he never should have been sent there. Some mistake had been made. He had no friends or relatives. He was put in cages all the time.
He had a name for a better world, and he often saw it in dreams. Its name was a secret. He would have been ridiculed, if he had said its name out loud. It was such a childish name.
The young black jailbird could see the name any time he wanted to, written in lights on the inside of his skull. This is what it looked like:

 •••
He had a photograph of Dwayne in his wallet. He used to have photographs of Dwayne on the walls of his cell at Shepherdstown. They were easy to get, because Dwayne’s smiling face, with his motto underneath, was a part of every ad he ran in the Bugle-Observer. The picture was changed every six months. The motto hadn’t varied in twenty-five years.
Here was the motto:
ASK ANYBODY— YOU CAN TRUST DWAYNE.
The young ex-convict smiled yet again at Dwayne. His teeth were in perfect repair. The dental program at Shepherdstown was excellent. So was the food.
“Good morning, sir,” said the young man to Dwayne. He was dismayingly innocent. There was so much he had to learn. He didn’t know anything about women, for instance. Francine Pefko was the first woman he had spoken to in eleven years.
“Good morning,” said Dwayne. He said it softly, so his voice wouldn’t carry very far, in case he was conversing with an hallucination.
“Sir—I have read your ads in the newspapers with great interest, and I have found pleasure in your radio advertising, too,” the parolee said. During the last year in prison, he had been obsessed by one idea: that he would work for Dwayne someday, and live happily ever after. It would be like Fairyland.

Dwayne made no reply to this, so the young man went on: “I am a very hard worker, sir, as you can see. I hear nothing but good things about you. I think the good Lord meant for me to work for you.”
“Oh?” said Dwayne.
“Our names are so close,” said the young man, “it’s the good Lord
telling us both what to do.”
Dwayne Hoover didn’t ask him what his name was, but the young man
told him anyway, radiantly: “My name, sir, is Wayne Hoobler.”
All around Midland City, Hoobler was a common Nigger name.
•••
Dwayne Hoover broke Wayne Hoobler’s heart by shaking his head vaguely, then walking away.
•••
Dwayne entered his showroom. The ground wasn’t blooping underneath him anymore, but now he saw something else for which there could be no explanation: A palm tree was growing out of the showroom floor. Dwayne’s bad chemicals made him forget all about Hawaiian Week. Actually, Dwayne had designed the palm tree himself. It was a sawed-off telephone pole— swaddled in burlap. It had real coconuts nailed to the top of it. Sheets of green plastic had been cut to resemble leaves.
The tree so bewildered Dwayne that he almost swooned. Then he looked around and saw pineapples and ukuleles scattered everywhere.
And then he saw the most unbelievable thing of all: His sales manager, Harry LeSabre, came toward him leeringly, wearing a lettuce-green leotard, straw sandals, a grass skirt, and a pink T-shirt which looked like this:

 •••
Harry and his wife had spent all weekend arguing about whether or not Dwayne suspected that Harry was a transvestite. They concluded that Dwayne had no reason to suspect it. Harry never talked about women’s clothes to Dwayne. He had never entered a transvestite beauty contest or done what a lot of transvestites in Midland City did, which was join a big transvestite club over in Cincinnati. He never went into the city’s transvestite bar, which was Ye Old Rathskeller, in the basement of the Fairchild Hotel. He had never exchanged Polaroid pictures with any other transvestites, had never subscribed to a transvestite magazine.
Harry and his wife concluded that Dwayne had meant nothing more than what he said, that Harry had better put on some wild clothes for Hawaiian Week, or Dwayne would can him.
So here was the new Harry now, rosy with fear and excitement. He felt uninhibited and beautiful and lovable and suddenly free.
He greeted Dwayne with the Hawaiian word which meant both hello and goodbye. “Aloha,” he said.

12
KILGORE TROUT was far away, but he was steadily closing the distance
between himself and Dwayne. He was still in the truck named Pyramid. It was crossing a bridge named in honor of the poet Walt Whitman. The bridge was veiled in smoke. The truck was about to become a part of Philadelphia now. A sign at the foot of the bridge said this:
  •••
As a younger man, Trout would have sneered at the sign about brotherhood—posted on the rim of a bomb crater, as anyone could see. But his head no longer sheltered ideas of how things could be and should be on the planet, as opposed to how they really were. There was only one way for the Earth to be, he thought: the way it was.
Everything was necessary. He saw an old white woman fishing through a garbage can. That was necessary. He saw a bathtub toy, a little rubber duck, lying on its side on the grating over a storm sewer. It had to be there.
And so on.
•••
The driver mentioned that the day before had been Veterans’ Day. “Um,” said Trout.

“You a veteran?” said the driver. “No,” said Trout. “Are you?” “No,” said the driver.
Neither one of them was a veteran.
•••
The driver got onto the subject of friends. He said it was hard for him to maintain friendships that meant anything because he was on the road most of the time. He joked about the time when he used to talk about his “best friends.” He guessed people stopped talking about best friends after they got out of junior high school.
He suggested that Trout, since Trout was in the combination aluminum storm window and screen business, had opportunities to build many lasting friendships in the course of his work. “I mean,” he said, “you get men working together day after day, putting up those windows, they get to know each other pretty well.”
“I work alone,” said Trout.
The driver was disappointed. “I assumed it would take two men to do the job.”
“Just one,” said Trout. “A weak little kid could do it without any help.”
The driver wanted Trout to have a rich social life so that he could enjoy it vicariously. “All the same,” he insisted, “you’ve got buddies you see after work. You have a few beers. You play some cards. You have some laughs.”
Trout shrugged.
“You walk down the same streets every day,” the driver told him. “You know a lot of people, and they know you, because it’s the same streets for you, day after day. You say, ‘Hello,’ and they say ‘Hello,’ back. You call them by name. They call you by name. If you’re in a real jam, they’ll help you, because you’re one of ’em. You belong. They see you every day.”
Trout didn’t want to argue about it. •••

Trout had forgotten the driver’s name.
Trout had a mental defect which I, too, used to suffer from. He couldn’t remember what different people in his life looked like—unless their bodies or faces were strikingly unusual.
When he lived on Cape Cod, for instance, the only person he could greet warmly and by name was Alfy Bearse, who was a one-armed albino. “Hot enough for you, Alfy?” he would say. “Where you been keeping yourself, Alfy?” he’d say. “You’re a sight for sore eyes, Alfy,” he’d say.
And so on.
•••
Now that Trout lived in Cohoes, the only person he called by name was a red-headed Cockney midget, Durling Heath. He worked in a shoe repair shop. Heath had an executive-type nameplate on his workbench, in case anybody wished to address him by name. The nameplate looked like this:
Trout would drop into the shop from time to time, and say such things as, “Who’s gonna win the World Series this year, Durling?” and “You have any idea what all the sirens were blowing about last night, Durling?” and, “You’re looking good today, Durling—where’d you get that shirt?” And so on.
Trout wondered now if his friendship with Heath was over. The last time Trout had been in the shoe repair place, saying this and that to Durling, the midget had unexpectedly screamed at him.
This is what he had screamed in his Cockney accent: “Stop bloody hounding me!”
•••
The Governor of New York, Nelson Rockefeller, shook Trout’s hand in
 
a Cohoes grocery story one time. Trout had no idea who he was. As a science-fiction writer, he should have been flabbergasted to come so close to such a man. Rockefeller wasn’t merely Governor. Because of the peculiar laws in that part of the planet, Rockefeller was allowed to own vast areas of Earth’s surface, and the petroleum and other valuable minerals underneath the surface, as well. He owned or controlled more of the planet than many nations. This had been his destiny since infancy. He had been born into that cockamamie proprietorship.
“How’s it going, fella?” Governor Rockefeller asked him. “About the same,” said Kilgore Trout.
•••
After insisting that Trout had a rich social life, the driver pretended, again for his own gratification, that Trout had begged to know what the sex life of a transcontinental truck driver was like. Trout had begged no such thing.
“You want to know how truck drivers make out with women, right?” the driver said. “You have this idea that every driver you see is fucking up a storm from coast to coast, right?”
Trout shrugged.
The truck driver became embittered by Trout, scolded him for being so salaciously misinformed. “Let me tell you, Kilgore—” he hesitated. “That’s your name, right?”
“Yes,” said Trout. He had forgotten the driver’s name a hundred times. Every time Trout looked away from him, Trout forgot not only his name but his face, too.
“Kilgore, God damn it—” the driver said, “if I was to have my rig break down in Cohoes, for instance, and I was to have to stay there for two days while it was worked on, how easy you think it would be for me to get laid while I was there—a stranger, looking the way I do?”
“It would depend on how determined you were,” said Trout.
The driver sighed. “Yeah, God—” he said, and he despaired for himself, “that’s probably the story of my life: not enough determination.”

•••
They talked about aluminum siding as a technique for making old houses look new again. From a distance, these sheets, which never needed painting, looked like freshly painted wood.
The driver wanted to talk about Perma-Stone, too, which was a competitive scheme. It involved plastering the sides of old houses with colored cement, so that, from a distance, they looked as though they were made of stone.
“If you’re in aluminum storm windows,” the driver said to Trout, “you must be in aluminum siding, too.” All over the country, the two businesses went hand-in-hand.
“My company sells it,” said Trout, “and I’ve seen a lot of it. I’ve never actually worked on an installation.”
The driver was thinking seriously of buying aluminum siding for his home in Little Rock, and he begged Trout to give him an honest answer to this question: “From what you’ve seen and heard—the people who get aluminum siding, are they happy with what they get?”
“Around Cohoes,” said Trout. “I think those were about the only really happy people I ever saw.”
•••
“I know what you mean,” said the driver. “One time I saw a whole family standing outside their house. They couldn’t believe how nice their house looked after the aluminum siding went on. My question to you, and you can give me an honest answer, on account of we’ll never have to do business, you and me: Kilgore, how long will that happiness last?”
“About fifteen years,” said Trout. “Our salesmen say you can easily afford to have the job redone with all the money you’ve saved on paint and heat.”
“Perma-Stone looks a lot richer, and I suppose it lasts a lot longer, too,” said the driver. “On the other hand, it costs a lot more.”
“You get what you pay for,” said Kilgore Trout.

•••
The truck driver told Trout about a gas hot-water heater he had bought thirty years ago, and it hadn’t given him a speck of trouble in all that time.
“I’ll be damned,” said Kilgore Trout. •••
Trout asked about the truck, and the driver said it was the greatest truck in the world. The tractor alone cost twenty-eight thousand dollars. It was powered by a three hundred and twenty-four horsepower Cummins Diesel engine, which was turbo-charged, so it would function well at high altitudes. It had hydraulic steering, air brakes, a thirteen-speed transmission, and was owned by his brother-in-law.
His brother-in-law, he said, owned twenty-eight trucks, and was President of the Pyramid Trucking Company.
“Why did he name his company Pyramid?” asked Trout. “I mean—this thing can go a hundred miles an hour, if it has to. It’s fast and useful and unornamental. It’s as up-to-date as a rocket ship. I never saw anything that was less like a pyramid than this truck.”
•••
A pyramid was a sort of huge stone tomb which Egyptians had built thousands and thousands of years before. The Egyptians didn’t build them anymore. The tombs looked like this, and tourists would come from far away to gaze at them:

 “Why would anybody in the business of highspeed transportation name his business and his trucks after buildings which haven’t moved an eighth of an inch since Christ was born?”
The driver’s answer was prompt. It was peevish, too, as though he thought Trout was stupid to have to ask a question like that. “He liked the sound of it,” he said. “Don’t you like the sound of it?”
Trout nodded in order to keep things friendly. “Yes,” he said, “it’s a very nice sound.”
•••
Trout sat back and thought about the conversation. He shaped it into a story, which he never got around to writing until he was an old, old man. It was about a planet where the language kept turning into pure music, because the creatures there were so enchanted by sounds. Words became musical notes. Sentences became melodies. They were useless as conveyors of information, because nobody knew or cared what the meanings of words were anymore.
So leaders in government and commerce, in order to function, had to invent new and much uglier vocabularies and sentence structures all the time, which would resist being transmuted to music.
•••
“You married, Kilgore?” the driver asked.

“Three times,” said Trout. It was true. Not only that, but each of his wives had been extraordinarily patient and loving and beautiful. Each had been shriveled by his pessimism.
“Any kids?”
“One,” said Trout. Somewhere in the past, tumbling among all the wives and stories lost in the mails was a son named Leo. “He’s a man now,” said Trout.
•••
Leo left home forever at the age of fourteen. He lied about his age, and he joined the Marines. He sent a note to his father from boot camp. It said this: “I pity you. You’ve crawled up your own asshole and died.”
That was the last Trout heard from Leo, directly or indirectly, until he was visited by two agents from the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Leo had deserted from his division in Viet Nam, they said. He had committed high treason. He had joined the Viet Cong.
Here was the F.B.I, evaluation of Leo’s situation on the planet at that time: “Your boy’s in bad trouble,” they said.

13
WHEN DWAYNE HOOVER saw Harry LeSabre, his sales manager, in leaf-green
leotards and a grass skirt and all that, he could not believe it. So he made himself not see it. He went into his office, which was also cluttered with ukuleles and pineapples.
Francine Pefko, his secretary, looked normal, except that she had a rope of flowers around her neck and a flower behind one ear. She smiled. This was a war widow with lips like sofa pillows and bright red hair. She adored Dwayne. She adored Hawaiian Week, too.
“Aloha,” she said.
•••
Harry LeSabre, meanwhile, had been destroyed by Dwayne.
When Harry presented himself to Dwayne so ridiculously, every molecule in his body awaited Dwayne’s reaction. Each molecule ceased its business for a moment, put some distance between itself and its neighbors. Each molecule waited to learn whether its galaxy, which was called Harry LeSabre, would or would not be dissolved.
When Dwayne treated Harry as though he were invisible, Harry thought he had revealed himself as a revolting transvestite, and that he was fired on that account.
Harry closed his eyes. He never wanted to open them again. His heart sent this message to his molecules: “For reasons obvious to us all, this galaxy is dissolved!”
•••
 
Dwayne didn’t know anything about that. He leaned on Francine Pefko’s desk. He came close to telling her how sick he was. He warned her: “This is a very tough day, for some reason. So no jokes, no surprises. Keep everything simple. Keep anybody the least bit nutty out of here. No telephone calls.”
Francine told Dwayne that the twins were waiting for him in the inner office. “Something bad is happening to the cave, I think,” she told him.
Dwayne was grateful for a message that simple and clear. The twins were his younger stepbrothers, Lyle and Kyle Hoover. The cave was Sacred Miracle Cave, a tourist trap just south of Shepherdstown, which Dwayne owned in partnership with Lyle and Kyle. It was the sole source of income for Lyle and Kyle, who lived in identical yellow ranch houses on either side of the gift shop which sheltered the entrance to the cave.
All over the State, nailed to trees and fence posts, were arrow-shaped signs, which pointed in the direction of the cave and said how far away it was —for example:
Before Dwayne entered his inner office, he read one of many comical signs which Francine had put up on the wall in order to amuse people, to remind them of what they so easily forgot: that people didn’t have to be serious all the time.
Here was the text of the sign Dwayne read:
YOU DON’T HAVE TO BE CRAZY TO WORK HERE, BUT IT SURE HELPS!
There was a picture of a crazy person to go with the text. This was it:
 
 Francine wore a button on her bosom which showed a creature in a healthier, more enviable frame of mind. This was the button:
•••
Lyle and Kyle sat side-by-side on the black leather couch in Dwayne Hoover’s inner office. They looked so much alike that Dwayne had not been able to tell them apart until 1954, when Lyle got in a fight over a woman at the Roller Derby. After that, Lyle was the one with the broken nose. As babies in crib, Dwayne remembered now, they used to suck each other’s thumbs.
•••
Here is how Dwayne happened to have stepbrothers, incidentally, even though he had been adopted by people who couldn’t have children of their own. Their adopting him triggered something to their bodies which made it possible for them to have children after all. This was a common phenomenon. A lot of couples seemed to be programmed that way.
•••
Dwayne was so glad to see them now—these two little men in overalls
 
and work shoes, each wearing a pork-pie hat. They were familiar, they were real. Dwayne closed his door on the chaos outside. “All right—” he said, “what’s happened at the cave?”
Ever since Lyle had had his nose broken, the twins agreed that Lyle should do the talking for the two. Kyle hadn’t said a thousand words since 1954.
“Them bubbles is halfway up to the Cathedral now,” said Lyle. “The way they’re coming, they’ll be up to Moby Dick in a week or two.”
Dwayne understood him perfectly. The underground stream which passed through the bowels of Sacred Miracle Cave was polluted by some sort of industrial waste which formed bubbles as tough as ping-pong balls. These bubbles were shouldering one another up a passage which led to a big boulder which had been painted white to resemble Moby Dick, the Great White Whale. The bubbles would soon engulf Moby Dick and invade the Cathedral of Whispers, which was the main attraction at the cave. Thousands of people had been married in the Cathedral of Whispers—including Dwayne and Lyle and Kyle. Harry LeSabre, too.
•••
Lyle told Dwayne about an experiment he and Kyle had performed the night before. They had gone into the cave with their identical Browning Automatic Shotguns, and they had opened fire on the advancing wall of bubbles.
“They let loose a stink you wouldn’t believe,” said Lyle. He said it smelled like athlete’s foot. “It drove me and Kyle right out of there. We run the ventilating system for an hour, and then we went back in. The paint was blistered on Moby Dick. He ain’t even got eyes anymore.” Moby Dick used to have long-lashed blue eyes as big as dinner plates.
•••
“The organ turned black, and the ceiling turned a kind of dirty yellow,”
said Lyle. “You can’t hardly see the Sacred Miracle no more.”
The organ was the Pipe Organ of the Gods, a thicket of stalactites and stalagmites which had grown together in one corner of the Cathedral. There

was a loudspeaker in back of it, through which music for weddings and funerals was played. It was illuminated by electric lights, which changed colors all the time.
The Sacred Miracle was a cross on the ceiling of the Cathedral. It was formed by the intersection of two cracks. “It never was real easy to see,” said Lyle, speaking of the cross. “I ain’t even sure it’s there anymore.” He asked Dwayne’s permission to order a load of cement. He wanted to plug up the passage between the stream and the Cathedral.
“Just forget about Moby Dick and Jesse James and the slaves and all that,” said Lyle, “and save the Cathedral.”
Jesse James was a skeleton which Dwayne’s stepfather had bought from the estate of a doctor back during the Great Depression. The bones of its right hand mingled with the rusted parts of a .45 caliber revolver. Tourists were told that it had been found that way, that it probably belonged to some railroad robber who had been trapped in the cave by a rock-slide.
As for the slaves: these were plaster statues of black men in a chamber fifty feet down the corridor from Jesse James. The statues were removing one another’s chains with hammers and hacksaws. Tourists were told that real slaves had at one time used the cave after escaping to freedom across the Ohio River.
•••
The story about the slaves was as fake as the one about Jesse James. The cave wasn’t discovered until 1937, when a small earthquake opened it up a crack. Dwayne Hoover himself discovered the crack, and then he and his stepfather opened it with crowbars and dynamite. Before that, not even small animals had been in there.
The only connection the cave had with slavery was this: the farm on which it was discovered was started by an ex-slave, Josephus Hoobler. He was freed by his master, and he came north and started the farm. Then he went back and bought his mother and a woman who became his wife.
Their descendants continued to run the farm until the Great Depression, when the Midland County Merchants Bank foreclosed on the mortgage. And then Dwayne’s stepfather was hit by an automobile driven by a white man who had bought the farm. In an out-of-court settlement for his injuries,

Dwayne’s stepfather was given what he called contemptuously “... a God damn Nigger farm.”
Dwayne remembered the first trip the family took to see it. His father ripped a Nigger sign off the Nigger mailbox, and he threw it into a ditch. Here is what it said:
 
14
THE TRUCK carrying Kilgore Trout was in West Virginia now. The surface
of the State had been demolished by men and machinery and explosives in order to make it yield up its coal. The coal was mostly gone now. It had been turned into heat.
The surface of West Virginia, with its coal and trees and topsoil gone, was rearranging what was left of itself in conformity with the laws of gravity. It was collapsing into all the holes which had been dug into it. Its mountains, which had once found it easy to stand by themselves, were sliding into valleys now.
The demolition of West Virginia had taken place with the approval of the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of the State Government, which drew their power from the people.
Here and there an inhabited dwelling still stood. •••
Trout saw a broken guardrail ahead. He gazed into a gully below it, saw a 1968 Cadillac El Dorado capsized in a brook. It had Alabama license plates. There were also several old home appliances in the brook—stoves, a washing machine, a couple of refrigerators.
An angel-faced white child, with flaxen hair, stood by the brook. She waved up at Trout. She clasped an eighteen-ounce bottle of Pepsi-Cola to her breast.
•••
Trout asked himself out loud what the people did for amusement, and the driver told him a queer story about a night he spent in West Virginia, in
 
the cab of his truck, near a windowless building which droned monotonously.
“I’d see folks go in, and I’d see folks come out,” he said, “but I couldn’t figure out what kind of a machine it was that made the drone. The building was a cheap old frame thing set up on cement blocks, and it was out in the middle of nowhere. Cars came and went, and the folks sure seemed to like whatever was doing the droning,” he said.
So he had a look inside. “It was full of folks on roller-skates,” he said. “They went around and around. Nobody smiled. They just went around and around.”
•••
He told Trout about people he’d heard of in the area who grabbed live copperheads and rattlesnakes during church services, to show how much they believed that Jesus would protect them.
“Takes all kinds of people to make up a world,” said Trout. •••
Trout marveled at how recently white men had arrived in West Virginia, and how quickly they had demolished it—for heat.
Now the heat was all gone, too—into outer space, Trout supposed. It had boiled water, and the steam had made steel windmills whiz around and around. The windmills had made rotors in generators whiz around and around. America was jazzed with electricity for a while. Coal had also powered old-fashioned steamboats and choo-choo trains.
•••
Choo-choo trains and steamboats and factories had whistles which were blown by steam when Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout and I were boys— when our fathers were boys, when our grandfathers were boys. The whistles looked like this:

 Steam from water boiled by burning coal was sent raging through the whistles, which made harshly beautiful laments, as though they were the voice boxes of mating or dying dinosaurs—cries such as woooooooo-uh, wooooo-uh, and torrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrnnnnnnnnnnnn, and so on.
•••
A dinosaur was a reptile as big as a choo-choo train. It looked like this:
It had two brains, one for its front end and one for its rear end. It was extinct. Both brains combined were smaller than a pea. A pea was a legume which looked like this:
Coal was a highly compressed mixture of rotten trees and flowers and bushes and grasses and so on, and dinosaur excrement.
  
•••
Kilgore Trout thought about the cries of steam whistles he had known, and about the destruction of West Virginia, which made their songs possible. He supposed that the heartrending cries had fled into outer space, along with the heat. He was mistaken.
Like most science-fiction writers, Trout knew almost nothing about science, was bored stiff by technical details. But no cry from a whistle had got very far from Earth for this reason: sound could only travel in an atmosphere, and the atmosphere of Earth relative to the planet wasn’t even as thick as the skin of an apple. Beyond that lay an all-but-perfect vacuum.
An apple was a popular fruit which looked like this:
•••
The driver was a big eater. He pulled into a MacDonald’s Hamburger establishment. There were many different chains of hamburger establishments in the country. MacDonald’s was one. Burger Chef was another. Dwayne Hoover, as has already been said, owned franchises for several Burger Chefs.
•••
A hamburger was made out of an animal which looked like this:
 
 The animal was killed and ground up into little bits, then shaped into patties and fried, and put between two pieces of bread. The finished product looked like this:
•••
And Trout, who had so little money left, ordered a cup of coffee. He asked an old, old man on a stool next to him at the table if he had worked in the coal mines.
The old man said this: “From the time I was ten till I was sixty-two.”
“You glad to be out of ’em?” said Trout.
“Oh, God,” said the man, “you never get out of ’em—even when you sleep. I dream mines.”
Trout asked him what it had felt like to work for an industry whose business was to destroy the countryside, and the old man said he was usually too tired to care.
•••
 
“Don’t matter if you care,” the old miner said, “if you don’t own what you care about.” He pointed out that the mineral rights to the entire county in which they sat were owned by the Rosewater Coal and Iron Company, which had acquired these rights soon after the end of the Civil War. “The law says,” he went on, “when a man owns something under the ground and he wants to get at it, you got to let him tear up anything between the surface and what he owns.”
Trout did not make the connection between the Rosewater Coal and Iron Company and Eliot Rosewater, his only fan. He still thought Eliot Rosewater was a teenager.
The truth was that Rosewater’s ancestors had been among the principal destroyers of the surface and the people of West Virginia.
•••
“It don’t seem right, though,” the old miner said to Trout, “that a man can own what’s underneath another man’s farm or woods or house. And any time the man wants to get what’s underneath all that, he’s got a right to wreck what’s on top to get at it. The rights of the people on top of the ground don’t amount to nothing compared to the rights of the man who owns what’s underneath.”
He remembered out loud when he and other miners used to try to force the Rosewater Coal and Iron Company to treat them like human beings. They would fight small wars with the company’s private police and the State Police and the National Guard.
“I never saw a Rosewater,” he said, “but Rosewater always won. I walked on Rosewater. I dug holes for Rosewater in Rosewater. I lived in Rosewater houses. I ate Rosewater food. I’d fight Rosewater, whatever Rosewater is, and Rosewater would beat me and leave me for dead. You ask people around here and they’ll tell you: this whole world is Rosewater as far as they’re concerned.”
•••
The driver knew Trout was bound for Midland City. He didn’t know Trout was a writer on his way to an arts festival. Trout understood that honest

working people had no use for the arts.
“Why would anybody in his right mind go to Midland City?” the driver wanted to know. They were riding along again.
“My sister is sick,” said Trout.
“Midland City is the asshole of the Universe,” said the driver.
“I’ve often wondered where the asshole was,” said Trout.
“If it isn’t in Midland City,” said the driver, “it’s in Libertyville, Georgia. You ever see Libertyville?”
“No,” said Trout.
“I was arrested for speeding down there. They had a speed trap, where you all of a sudden had to go from fifty down to fifteen miles an hour. It made me mad. I had some words with the policeman, and he put me in jail.
“The main industry there was pulping up old newspapers and magazines and books, and making new paper out of ’em,” said the driver. “Trucks and trains were bringing in hundreds of tons of unwanted printed material every day.”
“Um,” said Trout.
“And the unloading process was sloppy, so there were pieces of books and magazines and so on blowing all over town. If you wanted to start a library, you could just go over to the freight yard, and carry away all the books you wanted.”
“Um,” said Trout. Up ahead was a white man hitchhiking with his pregnant wife and nine children.
“Looks like Gary Cooper, don’t he?” said the truck driver of the hitchhiking man.
“Yes, he does,” said Trout. Gary Cooper was a movie star. •••
“Anyway,” said the driver, “they had so many books in Libertyville, they used books for toilet paper in the jail. They got me on a Friday, late in the afternoon, so I couldn’t have a hearing in court until Monday. So I sat there in the calaboose for two days, with nothing to do but read my toilet paper. I can still remember one of the stories I read.”

“Um,” said Trout.
“That was the last story I ever read,” said the driver. “My God—that must be all of fifteen years ago. The story was about another planet. It was a crazy story. They had museums full of paintings all over the place, and the government used a kind of roulette wheel to decide what to put in the museums, and what to throw out.”
Kilgore Trout was suddenly woozy with déjà vu. The truck driver was reminding him of the premise of a book he hadn’t thought about for years. The driver’s toilet paper in Libertyville, Georgia, had been The Barring- gaffner of Bagnialto, or This Yearns Masterpiece, by Kilgore Trout.
•••
The name of the planet where Trout’s book took place was Bagnialto, and a “Barring-gaffner” there was a government official who spun a wheel of chance once a year. Citizens submitted works of art to the government, and these were given numbers, and then they were assigned cash values according to the Barring-gaffner’s spins of the wheel.
The viewpoint of character of the tale was not the Barring-gaffner, but a humble cobbler named Gooz. Gooz lived alone, and he painted a picture of his cat. It was the only picture he had ever painted. He took it to the Barring- gaffner, who numbered it and put it in a warehouse crammed with works of art.
The painting by Gooz had an unprecedented gush of luck on the wheel. It became worth eighteen thousand lambos, the equivalent of one billion dollars on Earth. The Barring-gaffner awarded Gooz a check for that amount, most of which was taken back at once by the tax collector. The picture was given a place of honor in the National Gallery, and people lined up for miles for a chance to see a painting worth a billion dollars.
There was also a huge bonfire of all the paintings and statues and books and so on which the wheel had said were worthless. And then it was discovered that the wheel was rigged, and the Barring-gaffner committed suicide.
•••

It was an amazing coincidence that the truck driver had read a book by Kilgore Trout. Trout had never met a reader before, and his response now was interesting: He did not admit that he was the father of the book.
•••
The driver pointed out that all the mailboxes in the area had the same last name painted on them.
“There’s another one,” he said, indicating a mailbox which looked like this:
The truck was passing through the area where Dwayne Hoover’s stepparents had come from. They had trekked from West Virginia to Midland City during the First World War, to make big money at the Keedsler Automobile Company, which was manufacturing airplanes and trucks. When they got to Midland City, they had their name changed legally from Hoobler to Hoover, because there were so many black people in Midland City named Hoobler.
As Dwayne Hoover’s stepfather explained to him one time, “It was embarrassing. Everybody up here naturally assumed Hoobler was a Nigger name.”
 
15
DWAYNE HOOVER got through lunch all right that day. He remembered now
about Hawaiian Week. The ukuleles and so on were no longer mysterious. The pavement between his automobile agency and the new Holiday Inn was no longer a trampoline.
He drove to lunch alone in an air-conditioned demonstrator, a blue Pontiac Le Mans with a cream interior, with his radio on. He heard several of his own radio commercials, which drove home the point: “You can always trust Dwayne.”
Though his mental health had improved remarkably since breakfast, a new symptom of illness made itself known. It was incipient echolalia. Dwayne found himself wanting to repeat out loud whatever had just been said.
So when the radio told him, “You can always trust Dwayne,” he echoed the last word. “Dwayne,” he said.
When the radio said there had been a tornado in Texas, Dwayne said this out loud: “Texas.”
Then he heard that husbands of women who had been raped during the war between India and Pakistan wouldn’t have anything to do with their wives anymore. The women, in the eyes of their husbands, had become unclean, said the radio.
“Unclean,” said Dwayne.
•••
As for Wayne Hoobler, the black ex-convict whose only dream was to work for Dwayne Hoover: he had learned to play hide-and-seek with Dwayne’s employees. He did not wish to be ordered off the property for
 
hanging around the used cars. So, when an employee came near, Wayne would wander off to the garbage and trash area behind the Holiday Inn, and gravely study the remains of club sandwiches and empty packs of Salem cigarettes and so on in the cans back there, as though he were a health inspector or some such thing.
When the employee went away, Wayne would drift back to the used cars, keeping the boiled eggs of his eyes peeled for the real Dwayne Hoover.
The real Dwayne Hoover, of course, had in effect denied that he was Dwayne. So, when the real Dwayne came out at lunch time, Wayne, who had nobody to talk to but himself, said this to himself: “That ain’t Mr. Hoover. Sure look like Mr. Hoover, though. Maybe Mr. Hoover sick today.” And so on.
•••
Dwayne had a hamburger and French fries and a Coke at his newest Burger Chef, which was out on Crestview Avenue, across the street from where the new John F. Kennedy High School was going up. John F. Kennedy had never been in Midland City, but he was a President of the United States who was shot to death. Presidents of the country were often shot to death. The assassins were confused by some of the same bad chemicals which troubled Dwayne.
•••
Dwayne certainly wasn’t alone, as far as having bad chemicals inside of him was concerned. He had plenty of company throughout all history. In his own lifetime, for instance, the people in a country called Germany were so full of bad chemicals for a while that they actually built factories whose only purpose was to kill people by the millions. The people were delivered by railroad trains.
When the Germans were full of bad chemicals, their flag looked like this:

 Here is what their flag looked like after they got well again:
After they got well again, they manufactured a cheap and durable automobile which became popular all over the world, especially among young people. It looked like this:
People called it “the beetle.” A real beetle looked like this:
  
 The mechanical beetle was made by Germans. The real beetle was made by the Creator of the Universe.
•••
Dwayne’s waitress at the Burger Chef was a seventeen-year-old white girl named Patty Keene. Her hair was yellow. Her eyes were blue. She was very old for a mammal. Most mammals were senile or dead by the time they were seventeen. But Patty was a sort of mammal which developed very slowly, so the body she rode around in was only now mature.
She was a brand-new adult, who was working in order to pay off the tremendous doctors’ and hospital bills her father had run up in the process of dying of cancer of the colon and then cancer of the everything.
This was in a country where everybody was expected to pay his own bills for everything, and one of the most expensive things a person could do was get sick. Patty Keene’s father’s sickness cost ten times as much as all the trips to Hawaii which Dwayne was going to give away at the end of Hawaiian Week.
•••
Dwayne appreciated Patty Keene’s brand-newness, even though he was not sexually attracted to women that young. She was like a new automobile, which hadn’t even had its radio turned on yet, and Dwayne was reminded of a ditty his father would sing sometimes when his father was drunk. It went like this:
Roses are red,
And ready for plucking.

You’re sixteen,
And ready for high school.
Patty Keene was stupid on purpose, which was the case with most women in Midland City. The women all had big minds because they were big animals, but they did not use them much for this reason: unusual ideas could make enemies, and the women, if they were going to achieve any sort of comfort and safety, needed all the friends they could get.
So, in the interests of survival, they trained themselves to be agreeing machines instead of thinking machines. All their minds had to do was to discover what other people were thinking, and then they thought that, too.
•••
Patty knew who Dwayne was. Dwayne didn’t know who Patty was. Patty’s heart beat faster when she waited on him—because Dwayne could solve so many of her problems with the money and power he had. He could give her a fine house and new automobiles and nice clothes and a life of leisure, and he could pay all the medical bills—as easily as she had given him his hamburger and his French fries and his Coke.
Dwayne could do for her what the Fairy Godmother did for Cinderella, if he wanted to, and Patty had never been so close to such a magical person before. She was in the presence of the supernatural. And she knew enough about Midland City and herself to understand that she might never be this close to the supernatural ever again.
Patty Keene actually imagined Dwayne’s waving a magic wand at her troubles and dreams. It looked like this:
 
She spoke up bravely, to learn if supernatural assistance was possible in her case. She was willing to do without it, expected to do without it—to work hard all her life, to get not much in return, and to associate with other men and women who were poor and powerless, and in debt. She said this to Dwayne:
“Excuse me for calling you by name, Mr. Hoover, but I can’t help knowing who you are, with your picture in all your ads and everything. Besides—everybody else who works here told me who you were. When you came in, they just buzzed and buzzed.”
“Buzzed,” said Dwayne. This was his echolalia again. •••
“I guess that isn’t the right word,” she said. She was used to apologizing for her use of language. She had been encouraged to do a lot of that in school. Most white people in Midland City were insecure when they spoke, so they kept their sentences short and their words simple, in order to keep embarrassing mistakes to a minimum. Dwayne certainly did that. Patty certainly did that.
This was because their English teachers would wince and cover their ears and give them flunking grades and so on whenever they failed to speak like English aristocrats before the First World War. Also: they were told that they were unworthy to speak or write their language if they couldn’t love or understand incomprehensible novels and poems and plays about people long ago and far away, such as Ivanhoe.
•••
The black people would not put up with this. They went on talking English every which way. They refused to read books they couldn’t understand—on the grounds they couldn’t understand them. They would ask such impudent questions as, “Whuffo I want to read no Tale of Two Cities? Whuffo?”
•••
Patty Keene flunked English during the semester when she had to read

and appreciate Ivanhoe, which was about men in iron suits and the women who loved them. And she was put in a remedial reading class, where they made her read The Good Earth, which was about Chinamen.
It was during this same semester that she lost her virginity. She was raped by a white gas-conversion unit installer named Don Breedlove in the parking lot outside the Bannister Memorial Fieldhouse at the County Fairgrounds after the Regional High School Basketball Playoffs. She never reported it to the police. She never reported it to anybody, since her father was dying at the time.
There was enough trouble already. •••
The Bannister Memorial Fieldhouse was named in honor of George Hickman Bannister, a seventeen-year-old boy who was killed while playing high school football in 1924. George Hickman Bannister had the largest tombstone in Calvary Cemetery, a sixty-two-foot obelisk with a marble football on top.
The marble football looked like this:
Football was a war game. Two opposing teams fought over the ball while wearing armor made out of leather and cloth and plastic.
George Hickman Bannister was killed while trying to get a hold of the ball on Thanksgiving Day. Thanksgiving Day was a holiday when everybody in the country was expected to express gratitude to the Creator of the Universe, mainly for food.
•••
George Hickman Bannister’s obelisk was paid for by public subscription, with the Chamber of Commerce matching every two dollars
 
raised with a dollar of its own. It was for many years the tallest structure in Midland City. A city ordinance was passed which made it illegal to erect anything taller than that, and it was called The George Hickman Bannister Law.
The ordinance was junked later on to allow radio towers to go up. •••
The two largest monuments in town, until the new Mildred Barry Memorial Arts Center went up in Sugar Creek, were constructed supposedly so that George Hickman Bannister would never be forgotten. But nobody ever thought about him anymore by the time Dwayne Hoover met Kilgore Trout. There wasn’t much to think about him, actually, even at the time of his death, except that he was young.
And he didn’t have any relatives in town anymore. There weren’t any Bannisters in the phone book, except for The Bannister, which was a motion picture theater. Actually, there wouldn’t even be a Bannister Theater in there after the new phonebooks came out. The Bannister had been turned into a cut-rate furniture store.
George Hickman Bannister’s father and mother and sister, Lucy, moved away from town before either the tombstone or the fieldhouse was completed, and they couldn’t be located for the dedication ceremonies.
•••
It was a very restless country, with people tearing around all the time. Every so often, somebody would stop to put up a monument.
There were monuments all over the country. But it was certainly unusual for somebody from the common people to have not one but two monuments in his honor, as was the case with George Hickman Bannister.
Technically, though, only the tombstone had been erected specifically for him. The fieldhouse would have gone up anyway. The money was appropriated for the fieldhouse two years before George Hickman Bannister was cut down in his prime. It didn’t cost anything extra to name it after him.
•••

Calvary Cemetery, where George Hickman Bannister was at rest, was named in honor of a hill in Jerusalem, thousands of miles away. Many people believed that the son of the Creator of the Universe had been killed on that hill thousands of years ago.
Dwayne Hoover didn’t know whether to believe that or not. Neither did Patty Keene.
•••
And they certainly weren’t worrying about it now. They had other fish to fry. Dwayne was wondering how long his attack of echolalia was likely to last, and Patty Keene had to find out if her brand-newness and prettiness and outgoing personality were worth a lot to a sweet, sort of sexy, middle-aged old Pontiac dealer like Dwayne.
“Anyway,” she said, “it certainly is an honor to have you visit us, and those aren’t the right words, either, but I hope you know what I mean.”
“Mean,” said Dwayne.
“Is the food all right?” she said.
“All right,” said Dwayne.
“It’s what everybody else gets,” she said. “We didn’t do anything special for you.”
“You,” said Dwayne.
•••
It didn’t matter much what Dwayne said. It hadn’t mattered much for years. It didn’t matter much what most people in Midland City said out loud, except when they were talking about money or structures or travel or machinery—or other measurable things. Every person had a clearly defined part to play—as a black person, a female high school drop-out, a Pontiac dealer, a gynecologist, a gas-conversion burner installer. If a person stopped living up to expectations, because of bad chemicals or one thing or another, everybody went on imagining that the person was living up to expectations anyway.
That was the main reason the people in Midland City were so slow to

detect insanity in their associates. Their imagination insisted that nobody changed much from day to day. Their imaginations were flywheels on the ramshackle machinery of the awful truth.
•••
When Dwayne left Patty Keene and his Burger Chef, when he got into his demonstrator and drove away, Patty Keene was persuaded that she could make him happy with her young body, with her bravery and cheerfulness. She wanted to cry about the lines in his face, and the fact that his wife had eaten Drāno, and that his dog had to fight all the time because it couldn’t wag its tail, about the fact that his son was a homosexual. She knew all those things about Dwayne. Everybody knew those things about Dwayne.
She gazed at the tower of radio station WMCY, which Dwayne Hoover owned. It was the tallest structure in Midland City. It was eight times as tall as the tombstone of George Hickman Bannister. It had a red light on top of it —to keep airplanes away.
She thought about all the new and used cars Dwayne owned. •••
Earth scientists had just discovered something fascinating about the continent Patty Keene was standing on, incidentally. It was riding on a slab about forty miles thick, and the slab was drifting around on molten glurp: And all the other continents had slabs of their own. When one slab crashed into another one, mountains were made.
•••
The mountains of West Virginia, for instance, were heaved up when a huge chunk of Africa crashed into North America. And the coal in the state was formed from forests which were buried by the crash.
Patty Keene hadn’t heard the big news yet. Neither had Dwayne. Neither had Kilgore Trout. I only found out about it day before yesterday. I was reading a magazine, and I also had the television on. A group of scientists was on television, saying that the theory of floating, crashing, grinding slabs was more than a theory. They could prove it was true now, and that Japan and

San Francisco, for instance, were in hideous danger, because that was where some of the most violent crashing and grinding was going on.
They said, too, that ice ages would continue to occur. Mile-thick glaciers would, geologically speaking, continue to go down and up like window blinds.
•••
Dwayne Hoover, incidentally, had an unusually large penis, and didn’t even know it. The few women he had had anything to do with weren’t sufficiently experienced to know whether he was average or not. The world average was five and seven-eighths inches long, and one and one-half inches in diameter when engorged with blood. Dwayne’s was seven inches long and two and one-eighth inches in diameter when engorged with blood.
Dwayne’s son Bunny had a penis that was exactly average.
Kilgore Trout had a penis seven inches long, but only one and one- quarter inches in diameter.
This was an inch:
Harry LeSabre, Dwayne’s sales manager, had a penis five inches long and two and one-eighth inches in diameter.
Cyprian Ukwende, the black physician from Nigeria, had a penis six and seven-eighths inches long and one and three-quarters inches in diameter.
Don Breedlove, the gas-conversion unit installer who raped Patty Keene, had a penis five and seven-eighths inches long and one and seven-eighths inches in diameter.
•••
Patty Keene had thirty-four-inch hips, a twenty-six-inch waist, and a thirty-four-inch bosom.
 
Dwayne’s late wife had thirty-six-inch hips, a twenty-eight-inch waist, and a thirty-eight-inch bosom when he married her. She had thirty-nine-inch hips, a thirty-one-inch waist, and a thirty-eight-inch bosom when she ate Drāno.
His mistress and secretary, Francine Pefko, had thirty-seven-inch hips, a thirty-inch waist, and a thirty-nine-inch bosom.
His stepmother at the time of her death had thirty-four-inch hips, a twenty-four-inch waist, and a thirty-three-inch bosom.
•••
So Dwayne went from the Burger Chef to the construction site of the new high school. He was in no hurry to get back to his automobile agency, particularly since he had developed echolalia. Francine was perfectly capable of running the place herself, without any advice from Dwayne. He had trained her well.
So he kicked a little dirt down into the cellar hole. He spat down into it. He stepped into mud. It sucked off his right shoe. He dug the shoe out with his hands, and he wiped it. Then he leaned against an old apple tree while he put the shoe back on. This had all been farmland when Dwayne was a boy. There had been an apple orchard here.
•••
Dwayne forgot all about Patty Keene, but she certainly hadn’t forgotten him. She would get up enough nerve that night to call him on the telephone, but Dwayne wouldn’t be home to answer. He would be in a padded cell in the County Hospital by then.
And Dwayne wandered over to admire a tremendous earth-moving machine which had cleared the site and dug the cellar hole. The machine was idle now, caked with mud. Dwayne asked a white workman how many horsepower drove the machine. All the workmen were white.
The workman said this: “I don’t know how many horsepower, but I know what we call it.”
“What do you call it?” said Dwayne, relieved to find his echolalia was subsiding.

“We call it The Hundred-Nigger Machine,” said the workman. This had reference to a time when black men had done most of the heavy digging in Midland City.
•••
The largest human penis in the United States was fourteen inches long and two and a half inches in diameter.
The largest human penis in the world was sixteen and seven-eighths inches long and two and one-quarter inches in diameter.
The blue whale, a sea mammal, had a penis ninety-six inches long and fourteen inches in diameter.
•••
One time Dwayne Hoover got an advertisement through the mail for a penis-extender, made out of rubber. He could slip it over the end of his real penis, according to the ad, and thrill his wife or sweetheart with extra inches. They also wanted to sell him a lifelike rubber vagina for when he was lonesome.
•••
Dwayne went back to work at about two in the afternoon, and he avoided everybody—because of his echolalia. He went into his inner office, and he ransacked his desk drawers for something to read or think about. He came across the brochure which offered him the penis-extender and the rubber vagina for lonesomeness. He had received it two months before. He still hadn’t thrown it away.
The brochure also offered him motion pictures such as the ones Kilgore Trout had seen in New York. There were still photographs taken from the movies, and these caused the sex excitation center in Dwayne’s brain to send nerve impulses down to an erection center in his spine.
The erection center caused the dorsal vein in his penis to tighten up, so blood could get in all right, but it couldn’t get out again. It also relaxed the tiny arteries in his penis, so they filled up the spongy tissue of which Dwayne’s penis was mainly composed, so that the penis got hard and stiff—

like a plugged-up garden hose.
So Dwayne called Francine Pefko on the telephone, even though she was only eleven feet away. “Francine—?” he said.
“Yes?” she said.
Dwayne fought down his echolalia. “I am going to ask you to do something I have never asked you to do before. Promise me you’ll say yes.”
“I promise,” she said.
“I want you to walk out of here with me this very moment,” he said, “and come with me to the Quality Motor Court at Shepherdstown.”
•••
Francine Pefko was willing to go to the Quality Motor Court with Dwayne. It was her duty to go, she thought—especially since Dwayne seemed so depressed and jangled. But she couldn’t simply walk away from her desk for the afternoon, since her desk was the nerve center of Dwayne Hoover’s Exit Eleven Pontiac Village.
“You ought to have some crazy young teen-ager, who can rush off whenever you want her to,” Francine told Dwayne.
“I don’t want a crazy teen-ager,” said Dwayne. “I want you.”
“Then you’re going to have to be patient,” said Francine. She went back to the Service Department, to beg Gloria Browning, the white cashier back there, to man her desk for a little while.
Gloria didn’t want to do it. She had had a hysterectomy only a month before, at the age of twenty-five—after a botched abortion at the Ramada Inn down in Green County, on Route 53, across from the entrance to Pioneer Village State Park.
There was a mildly amazing coincidence here: the father of the destroyed fetus was Don Breedlove, the white gas-conversion unit installer who had raped Patty Keene in the parking lot of the Bannister Memorial Fieldhouse.
This was a man with a wife and three kids. •••

Francine had a sign on the wall over her desk, which had been given to her as a joke at the automobile agency’s Christmas party at the new Holiday Inn the year before.
It spelled out the truth of her situation. This was it:
Gloria said she didn’t want to man the nerve center. “I don’t want to man anything,” she said.
•••
But Gloria took over Francine’s desk anyway. “I don’t have nerve enough to commit suicide,” she said, “so I might as well do anything anybody says—in the service of mankind.”
•••
Dwayne and Francine headed for Shepherdstown in separate cars, so as not to call attention to their love affair. Dwayne was in a demonstrator again. Francine was in her own red GTO. GTO stood for Gran Turismo Omologato. She had a sticker on her bumper which said this:
  
It was certainly loyal of her to put that sticker on her car. She was always doing loyal things like that, always rooting for her man, always rooting for Dwayne.
And Dwayne tried to reciprocate in little ways. For instance, he had been reading articles and books on sexual intercourse recently. There was a sexual revolution going on in the country, and women were demanding that men pay more attention to women’s pleasure during sexual intercourse, and not just think of themselves. The key to their pleasure, they said, and scientists backed them up, was the clitoris, a tiny meat cylinder which was right above the hole in women where men were supposed to stick their much larger cylinders.
Men were supposed to pay more attention to the clitoris, and Dwayne had been paying a lot more attention to Francine’s, to the point where she said he was paying too much attention to it. This did not surprise him. The things he had read about the clitoris had said that this was a danger—that a man could pay too much attention to it.
So, driving out to the Quality Motor Court that day, Dwayne was hoping that he would pay exactly the right amount of attention to Francine’s clitoris.
•••
Kilgore Trout once wrote a short novel about the importance of the clitoris in love-making. This was in response to a suggestion by his second wife, Darlene, that he could make a fortune with a dirty book. She told him that the hero should understand women so well that he could seduce anyone he wanted. So Trout wrote The Son of Jimmy Valentine.
Jimmy Valentine was a famous made-up person in another writer’s books, just as Kilgore Trout was a famous made-up person in my books. Jimmy Valentine in the other writer’s books sandpapered his fingertips, so they were extrasensitive. He was a safe-cracker. His sense of feel was so delicate that he could open any safe in the world by feeling the tumblers fall.
Kilgore Trout invented a son for Jimmy Valentine, named Ralston Valentine. Ralston Valentine also sandpapered his fingertips. But he wasn’t a safe-cracker. Ralston was so good at touching women the way they wanted to be touched, that tens of thousands of them became his willing slaves. They abandoned their husbands or lovers for him, in Trout’s story, and Ralston

Valentine became President of the United States, thanks to the votes of women.
•••
Dwayne and Francine made love in the Quality Motor Court. Then they stayed in bed for a while. It was a water bed. Francine had a beautiful body. So did Dwayne. “We never made love in the afternoon before,” said Francine.
“I felt so tense,” said Dwayne.
“I know,” said Francine. “Are you better now?”
“Yes.” He was lying on his back. His ankles were crossed. His hands were folded behind his head. His great wang lay across his thigh like a salami. It slumbered now.
“I love you so much,” said Francine. She corrected herself. “I know I promised not to say that, but that’s a promise I can’t help breaking all the time.” The thing was: Dwayne had made a pact with her that neither one of them was ever to mention love. Since Dwayne’s wife had eaten Drāno, Dwayne never wanted to hear about love ever again. The subject was too painful.
Dwayne snuffled. It was customary for him to communicate by means of snuffles after sexual intercourse. The snuffles all had meanings which were bland: “That’s all right ... forget it ... who could blame you?” And so on.
“On Judgment Day,” said Francine, “when they ask me what bad things I did down here, I’m going to have to tell them, ‘Well—there was a promise I made to a man I loved, and I broke it all the time. I promised him never to say I loved him.’”
This generous, voluptuous woman, who had only ninety-six dollars and eleven cents a week in take-home pay, had lost her husband, Robert Pefko, in a war in Viet Nam. He was a career officer in the Army. He had a penis six and one-half inches long and one and seven-eighths inches in diameter.
He was a graduate of West Point, a military academy which turned young men into homicidal maniacs for use in war.
•••

Francine followed Robert from West Point to Parachute School at Fort Bragg, and then to South Korea, where Robert managed a Post Exchange, which was a department store for soldiers, and then to the University of Pennsylvania, where Robert took a Master’s Degree in Anthropology, at Army expense, and then back to West Point, where Robert was an Assistant Professor of Social Sciences for three years.
After that, Francine followed Robert to Midland City, where Robert oversaw the manufacture of a new sort of booby trap. A booby trap was an easily hidden explosive device, which blew up when it was accidentally twiddled in some way. One of the virtues of the new type of booby trap was that it could not be smelled by dogs. Various armies at that time were training dogs to sniff out booby traps.
•••
When Robert and Francine were in Midland City, there weren’t any other military people around, so they made their first civilian friends. And Francine took a job with Dwayne Hoover, in order to augment her husband’s salary and fill her days.
But then Robert was sent to Viet Nam.
Shortly after that, Dwayne’s wife ate Drāno and Robert was shipped home in a plastic body bag.
•••
“I pity men,” said Francine, there in the Quality Motor Court. She was sincere. “I wouldn’t want to be a man—they take such chances, they work so hard.” They were on the second floor of the motel. Their sliding glass doors gave them a view of an iron railing and a concrete terrace outside—and then Route 103, and then the wall and the rooftops of the Adult Correctional Institution beyond that.
“I don’t wonder you’re tired and nervous,” Francine went on. “If I was a man, I’d be tired and nervous, too. I guess God made women so men could relax and be treated like little babies from time to time.” She was more than satisfied with this arrangement.
Dwayne snuffled. The air was rich with the smell of raspberries, which

was the perfume in the disinfectant and roach-killer the motel used.
Francine mused about the prison, where the guards were all white and most of the prisoners were black. “Is it true,” she said, “that nobody ever escaped from there?”
“It’s true,” said Dwayne.
•••
“When was the last time they used the electric chair?” said Francine. She was asking about a device in the basement of the prison, which looked like this:
The purpose of it was to kill people by jazzing them with more electricity than their bodies could stand. Dwayne Hoover had seen it twice— once during a tour of the prison by members of the Chamber of Commerce years ago, and then again when it was actually used on a black human being he knew.
•••
 
Dwayne tried to remember when the last execution took place at Shepherdstown. Executions had become unpopular. There were signs that they might become popular again. Dwayne and Francine tried to remember the most recent electrocution anywhere in the country which had stuck in their minds.
They remembered the double execution of a man and wife for treason. The couple had supposedly given secrets about how to make a hydrogen bomb to another country.
They remembered the double execution of a man and woman who were lovers. The man was good-looking and sexy, and he used to seduce ugly old women who had money, and then he and the woman he really loved would kill the women for their money. The woman he really loved was young, but she certainly wasn’t pretty in the conventional sense. She weighed two hundred and forty pounds.
Francine wondered out loud why a thin, good-looking young man would love a woman that heavy.
“It takes all kinds,” said Dwayne. •••
“You know what I keep thinking?” said Francine.
Dwayne snuffled.
“This would be a very good location for a Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise.”
Dwayne’s relaxed body contracted as though each muscle in it had been stung by a drop of lemon juice.
Here was the problem: Dwayne wanted Francine to love him for his body and soul, not for what his money could buy. He thought Francine was hinting that he should buy her a Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise, which was a scheme for selling fried chicken.
A chicken was a flightless bird which looked like this:

 The idea was to kill it and pull out all its feathers, and cut off its head and feet and scoop out its internal organs—and then chop it into pieces and fry the pieces, and put the pieces in a waxed paper bucket with a lid on it, so it looked like this:
•••
 
Francine, who had been so proud of her capacity to make Dwayne relax, was now ashamed to have made him tighten up again. He was as rigid as an ironing board. “Oh my God—” she said, “what’s the matter now?”
“If you’re going to ask me for presents,” said Dwayne, “just do me a favor—and don’t hint around right after we’ve made love. Let’s keep love- making and presents separate. O.K.?”
“I don’t even know what you think I asked for,” said Francine.
Dwayne mimicked her cruelly in a falsetto voice: “‘I don’t even know what you think I asked you for,’” he said. He looked about as pleasant and relaxed as a coiled rattlesnake now. It was his bad chemicals, of course, which were compelling him to look like that. A real rattlesnake looked like this:
The Creator of the Universe had put a rattle on its tail. The Creator had also given it front teeth which were hypodermic syringes filled with deadly poison.
•••
Sometimes I wonder about the Creator of the Universe.
•••
Another animal invented by the Creator of the Universe was a Mexican beetle which could make a blank-cartridge gun out of its rear end. It could
 
detonate its own farts and knock over other bugs with shock waves.
Word of Honor—I read about it in an article on strange animals in
Diners’ Club Magazine.
•••
So Francine got off the bed in order not to share it with the seeming rattlesnake. She was aghast. All she could say over and over again was, “You’re my man. You’re my man.” This meant that she was willing to agree about anything with Dwayne, to do anything for him, no matter how difficult or disgusting, to think up nice things to do for him that he didn’t even notice, to die for him, if necessary, and so on.
She honestly tried to live that way. She couldn’t imagine anything better to do. So she fell apart when Dwayne persisted in his nastiness. He told her that every woman was a whore, and every whore had her price, and Francine’s price was what a Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise would cost, which would be well over one hundred thousand dollars by the time adequate parking and exterior lighting and all that was taken into consideration, and so on.
Francine replied in blubbering gibberish that she had never wanted the franchise for herself, that she had wanted it for Dwayne, that everything she wanted was for Dwayne. Some of the words came through. “I thought of all the people who come out here to visit their relatives in prison, and I realized how most of them were black, and I thought how much black people liked fried chicken,” she said.
“So you want me to open a Nigger joint?” said Dwayne. And so on. So Francine now had the distinction of being the second close associate of Dwayne’s who discovered how vile he could be.
“Harry LeSabre was right” said Francine. She was backed up against the cement block wall of the motel room now, with her fingers spread over her mouth. Harry LeSabre, of course, was Dwayne’s transvestite sales manager. “He said you’d changed,” said Francine. She made a cage of fingers around her mouth. “Oh, God, Dwayne—” she said, “you’ve changed, you’ve changed.”
“Maybe it was time!” said Dwayne. “I never felt better in my life!” And so on.

•••
Harry LeSabre was at that moment crying, too. He was at home—in bed. He had a purple velvet sheet over his head. He was well-to-do. He had invested in the stock market very intelligently and luckily over the years. He had bought one hundred shares of Xerox, for instance, for eight dollars a share. With the passage of time, his shares had become one hundred times as valuable, simply lying in the total darkness and silence of a safe-deposit box.
There was a lot of money magic like that going on. It was almost as though some blue fairy were flitting about that part of the dying planet, waving her magic wand over certain deeds and bonds and stock certificates.
•••
Harry’s wife, Grace, was stretched out on a chaise longue at some distance from the bed. She was smoking a small cigar in a long holder made from the legbone of a stork. A stork was a large European bird, about half the size of a Bermuda Ern. Children who wanted to know where babies came from were sometimes told that they were brought by storks. People who told their children such a thing felt that their children were too young to think intelligently about wide-open beavers and all that.
And there were actually pictures of storks delivering babies on birth announcements and in cartoons and so on, for children to see. A typical one might look like this:

 Dwayne Hoover and Harry LeSabre saw pictures like that when they were very little boys. They believed them, too.
•••
Grace LeSabre expressed her contempt for the good opinion of Dwayne Hoover, which her husband felt he had lost. “Fuck Dwayne Hoover,” she said. “Fuck Midland City. Let’s sell the God damn Xerox stock and buy a condominium on Maui.” Maui was one of the Hawaiian Islands. It was widely believed to be a paradise.
“Listen,” said Grace, “we’re the only white people in Midland City with any kind of sex life, as nearly as I can tell. You’re not a freak. Dwayne Hoover’s the freak! How many orgasms do you think he has a month?”
“I don’t know,” said Harry from his humid tent.
Dwayne’s monthly orgasm rate on the average over the past ten years, which included the last years of his marriage, was two and one-quarter. Grace’s guess was close. “One point five,” she said. Her own monthly average over the same period was eighty-seven. Her husband’s average was thirty-six. He had been slowing up in recent years, which was one of many reasons he had for feeling panicky.
Grace now spoke loudly and scornfully about Dwayne’s marriage. “He was so scared of sex,” she said, “he married a woman who had never heard of

the subject, who was guaranteed to destroy herself, if she ever did hear about it.” And so on. “Which she finally did,” she said.
•••
“Can the reindeer hear you?” said Harry.
“Fuck the reindeer,” said Grace. Then she added, “No, the reindeer cannot hear.” Reindeer was their code word for the black maid, who was far away in the kitchen at the time. It was their code word for black people in general. It allowed them to speak of the black problem in the city, which was a big one, without giving offense to any black person who might overhear.
“The reindeer’s asleep—or reading the Black Panther Digest,” she said. •••
The reindeer problem was essentially this: Nobody white had much use for black people anymore—except for the gangsters who sold the black people used cars and dope and furniture. Still, the reindeer went on reproducing. There were these useless, big black animals everywhere, and a lot of them had very bad dispositions. They were given small amounts of money every month, so they wouldn’t have to steal. There was talk of giving them very cheap dope, too—to keep them listless and cheerful, and uninterested in reproduction.
The Midland City Police Department, and the Midland County Sheriff’s Department, were composed mainly of white men. They had racks and racks of sub-machine guns and twelve-gauge automatic shotguns for an open season on reindeer, which was bound to come.
“Listen—I’m serious,” said Grace to Harry. “This is the asshole of the Universe. Let’s split to a condominium on Maui and live for a change.”
So they did.
•••
Dwayne’s bad chemicals meanwhile changed his manner toward Francine from nastiness to pitiful dependency. He apologized to her for ever thinking that she wanted a Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken

franchise. He gave her full credit for unflagging unselfishness. He begged her to just hold him for a while, which she did.
“I’m so confused,” he said.
“We all are,” she said. She cradled his head against her breasts.
“I’ve got to talk to somebody,” said Dwayne.
“You can talk to Mommy, if you want,” said Francine. She meant that she was Mommy.
“Tell me what life is all about,” Dwayne begged her fragrant bosom. “Only God knows that,” said Francine.
•••
Dwayne was silent for a while. And then he told her haltingly about a trip he had made to the headquarters of the Pontiac Division of General Motors at Pontiac, Michigan, only three months after his wife ate Drāno.
“We were given a tour of all the research facilities,” he said. The thing that impressed him most, he said, was a series of laboratories and out-of- doors test areas where various parts of automobiles and even entire automobiles were destroyed. Pontiac scientists set upholstery on fire, threw gravel at windshields, snapped crankshafts and drive-shafts, staged head-on collisions, tore gearshift levers out by the roots, ran engines at high speeds with almost no lubrication, opened and closed glove compartment doors a hundred times a minute for days, cooled dashboard clocks to within a few degrees of absolute zero, and so on.
“Everything you’re not supposed to do to a car, they did to a car,” Dwayne said to Francine. “And I’ll never forget the sign on the front door of the building where all that torture went on.” Here was the sign Dwayne described to Francine:

 “I saw that sign,” said Dwayne, “and I couldn’t help wondering if that was what God put me on Earth for—to find out how much a man could take without breaking.”
•••
“I’ve lost my way,” said Dwayne. “I need somebody to take me by the hand and lead me out of the woods.”
“You’re tired,” she said. “Why wouldn’t you be tired? You work so hard. I feel sorry for men, they work so hard. You want to sleep for a while?”
“I can’t sleep,” said Dwayne, “until I get some answers.”
“You want to go to a doctor?” said Francine.
“I don’t want to hear the kinds of things doctors say,” said Dwayne. “I want to talk to somebody brand new. Francine,” he said, and he dug his fingers into her soft arm, “I want to hear new things from new people. I’ve heard everything anybody in Midland City ever said, ever will say. It’s got to be somebody new.”
“Like who?” said Francine.

“I don’t know,” said Dwayne. “Somebody from Mars, maybe.” “We could go to some other city,” said Francine.
“They’re all like here. They’re all the same,” said Dwayne.
Francine had an idea. “What about all these painters and writers and composers coming to town?” she said. “You never talked to anybody like that before. Maybe you should talk to one of them. They don’t think like other people.”
“I’ve tried everything else,” said Dwayne. He brightened. He nodded. “You’re right! The Festival could give me a brand new viewpoint on life!” he said.
“That’s what it’s for,” said Francine. “Use it!” “I will,” said Dwayne. This was a bad mistake.
•••
Kilgore Trout, hitchhiking westward, ever westward, had meanwhile become a passenger in a Ford Galaxie. The man at the controls of the Galaxie was a traveling salesman for a device which engulfed the rear ends of trucks at loading docks. It was a telescoping tunnel of rubberized canvas, and it looked like this in action:
The idea of the gadget was to allow people in a building to load or unload trucks without losing cold air in the summertime or hot air in the wintertime to the out-of-doors.
The man in control of the Galaxie also sold large spools for wire and
 
cable and rope. He also sold fire extinguishers. He was a manufacturer’s representative, he explained. He was his own boss, in that he represented products whose manufacturers couldn’t afford salesmen of their own.
“I make my own hours, and I pick the products I sell. The products don’t sell me,” he said. His name was Andy Lieber. He was thirty-two. He was white. He was a good deal overweight like so many people in the country. He was obviously a happy man. He drove like a maniac. The Galaxie was going ninety-two miles an hour now. “I’m one of the few remaining free men in America,” he said.
He had a penis one inch in diameter and seven and a half inches long. During the past year, he had averaged twenty-two orgasms per month. This was far above the national average. His income and the value of his life insurance policies at maturity were also far above average.
•••
Trout wrote a novel one time which he called How You Doin’? and it was about national averages for this and that. An advertising agency on another planet had a successful campaign for the local equivalent of Earthling peanut butter. The eye-catching part of each ad was the statement of some sort of average—the average number of children, the average size of the male sex organ on that particular planet—which was two inches long, with an inside diameter of three inches and an outside diameter of four and a quarter inches—and so on. The ads invited the readers to discover whether they were superior or inferior to the majority, in this respect or that one—whatever the respect was for that particular ad.
The ad went on to say that superior and inferior people alike ate such and such brand of peanut butter. Except that it wasn’t really peanut butter on that planet. It was Shazzbutter.
And so on.

16
ANDTHEPEANUTBUTTER-EATERS onEarthwerepreparingtoconquertheshazzbutter-
eaters on the planet in the book by Kilgore Trout. By this time, the Earthlings hadn’t just demolished West Virginia and Southeast Asia. They had demolished everything. So they were ready to go pioneering again.
They studied the shazzbutter-eaters by means of electronic snooping, and determined that they were too numerous and proud and resourceful ever to allow themselves to be pioneered.
So the Earthlings infiltrated the ad agency which had the shazzbutter account, and they buggered the statistics in the ads. They made the average for everything so high that everybody on the planet felt inferior to the majority in every respect.
And then the Earthling armored space ships came in and discovered the planet. Only token resistance was offered here and there, because the natives felt so below average. And then the pioneering began.
•••
Trout asked the happy manufacturer’s representative what it felt like to drive a Galaxie, which was the name of the car. The driver didn’t hear him, and Trout let it go. It was a dumb play on words, so that Trout was asking simultaneously what it was like to drive the car and what it was like to steer something like the Milky Way, which was one hundred thousand light-years in diameter and ten thousand light-years thick. It revolved once every two hundred million years. It contained about one hundred billion stars.
And then Trout saw that a simple fire extinguisher in the Galaxie had this brand name:
 
 As far as Trout knew, this word meant higher in a dead language. It was also a thing a fictitious mountain climber in a famous poem kept yelling as he disappeared into a blizzard up above. And it was also the trade name for wood shavings which were used to protect fragile objects inside packages.
“Why would anybody name a fire extinguisher Excelsior?” Trout asked the driver.
The driver shrugged. “Somebody must have liked the sound of it,” he said.
•••
Trout looked out at the countryside, which was smeared by high velocity. He saw this sign:
So he was getting really close to Dwayne Hoover. And, as though the Creator of the Universe or some other supernatural power were preparing him for the meeting, Trout felt the urge to thumb through his own book, Now It Can Be Told. This was the book which would soon turn Dwayne into a
 
homicidal maniac.
The premise of the book was this: Life was an experiment by the Creator of the Universe, Who wanted to test a new sort of creature He was thinking of introducing into the Universe. It was a creature with the ability to make up its own mind. All the other creatures were fully-programmed robots.
The book was in the form of a long letter from The Creator of the Universe to the experimental creature. The Creator congratulated the creature and apologized for all the discomfort he had endured. The Creator invited him to a banquet in his honor in the Empire Room of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel in New York City, where a black robot named Sammy Davis, Jr., would sing and dance.
•••
And the experimental creature wasn’t killed after the banquet. He was transferred to a virgin planet instead. Living cells were sliced from the palms of his hands, while he was unconscious. The operation didn’t hurt at all.
And then the cells were stirred into a soupy sea on the virgin planet. They would evolve into ever more complicated life forms as the eons went by. Whatever shapes they assumed, they would have free will.
Trout didn’t give the experimental creature a proper name. He simply called him The Man.
On the virgin planet, The Man was Adam and the sea was Eve. •••
The Man often sauntered by the sea. Sometimes he waded in his Eve. Sometimes he swam in her, but she was too soupy for an invigorating swim. She made her Adam feel sleepy and sticky afterwards, so he would dive into an icy stream that had just jumped off a mountain.
He screamed when he dived into the icy water, screamed again when he came up for air. He bloodied his shins and laughed about it when he scrambled up rocks to get out of the water.
He panted and laughed some more, and he thought of something amazing to yell. The Creator never knew what he was going to yell, since The Creator had no control over him. The Man himself got to decide what he

was going to do next—and why. After a dip one day, for instance, The Man yelled this: “Cheese!”
Another time he yelled, “Wouldn’t you really rather drive a Buick?” •••
The only other big animal on the virgin planet was an angel who visited The Man occasionally. He was a messenger and an investigator for the Creator of the Universe. He took the form of an eight hundred pound male cinnamon bear. He was a robot, too, and so was The Creator, according to Kilgore Trout.
The bear was attempting to get a line on why The Man did what he did. He would ask, for instance, “Why did you yell, ‘Cheese’?”
And The Man would tell him mockingly, “Because I felt like it, you stupid machine.”
•••
Here is what The Man’s tombstone on the virgin planet looked like at the end of the book by Kilgore Trout:
 
17
BUNNY HOOVER,Dwayne’shomosexualson,wasdressingforworknow.He
was the piano player in the cocktail lounge of the new Holiday Inn. He was poor. He lived alone in a room without bath in the old Fairchild Hotel, which used to be fashionable. It was a flophouse now—in the most dangerous part of Midland City.
Very soon, Bunny Hoover would be seriously injured by Dwayne, would soon share an ambulance with Kilgore Trout.
•••
Bunny was pale, the same unhealthy color of the blind fish that used to live in the bowels of Sacred Miracle Cave. Those fish were extinct. They had all turned belly-up years ago, had been flushed from the cave and into the Ohio River—to turn belly-up, to go bang in the noonday sun.
Bunny avoided the sunshine, too. And the water from the taps of Midland City was becoming more poisonous every day. He ate very little. He prepared his own food in his room. The preparation was simple, since vegetables and fruits were all he ate, and he munched them raw.
He not only did without dead meat—he did without living meat, too, without friends or lovers or pets. He had once been highly popular. When he was at Prairie Military Academy, for instance, the student body was unanimous in electing him Cadet Colonel, the highest rank possible, in his senior year.
•••
When Bunny played the piano bar at the Holiday Inn, he had many, many secrets. One of them was this: he wasn’t really there. He was able to
 
absent himself from the cocktail lounge, and from the planet itself, for that matter, by means of Transcendental Meditation. He learned this technique from Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, who once stopped off in Midland City during a world-wide lecture tour.
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, in exchange for a new handkerchief, a piece of fruit, a bunch of flowers, and thirty-five dollars, taught Bunny to close his eyes, and to say this euphonious nonsense word to himself over and over again: “Aye-eeeeem, aye-eeeeem, aye-eeeeem.” Bunny sat on the edge of his bed in the hotel room now, and he did it. “Aye-eeeeem, aye-eeeeem”, he said to himself—internally. The rhythm of the chant matched one syllable with each two beats in his heart. He closed his eyes. He became a skin diver in the depths of his mind. The depths were seldom used.
His heart slowed. His respiration nearly stopped. A single word floated by in the depths. It had somehow escaped from the busier parts of his mind. It wasn’t connected to anything. It floated by lazily, a translucent, scarf-like fish. The word was untroubling. Here was the word: “Blue.” Here is what it looked like to Bunny Hoover:
And then another lovely scarf swam by. It looked like this:
 
 •••
Fifteen minutes later, Bunny’s awareness bobbed to the surface of its own accord. Bunny was refreshed. He got up from the bed, and he brushed his hair with the military brushes his mother had given him when he was elected Cadet Colonel so long ago.
•••
Bunny was sent away to military school, an institution devoted to homicide and absolutely humorless obedience, when he was only ten years old. Here is why: He told Dwayne that he wished he were a woman instead of a man, because what men did was so often cruel and ugly.
•••
Listen: Bunny Hoover went to Prairie Military Academy for eight years of uninterrupted sports, buggery and Fascism. Buggery consisted of sticking one’s penis in somebody else’s asshole or mouth, or having it done to one by somebody else. Fascism was a fairly popular political philosophy which made sacred whatever nation and race the philosopher happened to belong to. It called for an autocratic, centralized government, headed up by a dictator. The dictator had to be obeyed, no matter what he told somebody to do.
And Bunny would bring new medals with him every time he came home for vacation. He could fence and box and wrestle and swim, he could shoot a

rifle and a pistol, fight with bayonets, ride a horse, creep and crawl through shrubbery, peek around corners without being seen.
He would show off his medals, and his mother would tell him when his father was out of hearing that she was becoming unhappier with each passing day. She would hint that Dwayne was a monster. It wasn’t true. It was all in her head.
She would begin to tell Bunny what was so vile about Dwayne, but she always stopped short. “You’re too young to hear about such things,” she’d say, even when Bunny was sixteen years old. “There’s nothing you or anybody could do about them anyway.” She would pretend to lock her lips with a key, and then whisper to Bunny, “There are secrets I will carry to my grave.”
Her biggest secret, of course, was one that Bunny didn’t detect until she knocked herself off with Drāno. Celia Hoover was crazy as a bedbug.
My mother was, too.
•••
Listen: Bunny’s mother and my mother were different sorts of human beings, but they were both beautiful in exotic ways, and they both boiled over with chaotic talk about love and peace and wars and evil and desperation, of better days coming by and by, of worse days coming by and by. And both our mothers committed suicide. Bunny’s mother ate Drāno. My mother ate sleeping pills, which wasn’t nearly as horrible.
•••
And Bunny’s mother and my mother had one really bizarre symptom in common: neither one could stand to have her picture taken. They were usually fine in the daytime. They usually concealed their frenzies until late at night. But, if somebody aimed a camera at either one of them during the daytime, the mother who was aimed at would crash down on her knees and protect her head with her arms, as though somebody was about to club her to death. It was a scary and pitiful thing to see.
•••

At least Bunny’s mother taught him how to control a piano, which was a music machine. At least Bunny Hoover’s mother taught him a trade. A good piano controller could get a job making music in cocktail lounges almost anywhere in the world, and Bunny was a good one. His military training was useless, despite all the medals he won. The armed forces knew he was a homosexual, that he was certain to fall in love with other fighting men, and the armed forces didn’t want to put up with such love affairs.
•••
So Bunny Hoover now got ready to practice his trade. He slipped a black velvet dinner jacket over a black turtleneck sweater now. Bunny looked out his only window at the alleyway. The better rooms afforded views of Fairchild Park, where there had been fifty-six murders in the past two years. Bunny’s room was on the second floor, so his window framed a piece of the blank brick side of what used to be the Keedsler Opera House.
There was an historical marker on the front of the former opera house. Not many people could understand it, but this is what it said:
The Opera House used to be the home of the Midland City Symphony Orchestra, which was an amateur group of music enthusiasts. But they became homeless in 1927, when the Opera House became a motion picture house, The Bannister. The orchestra remained homeless, too, until the
 
Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts went up.
And The Bannister was the city’s leading movie house for many years, until it was engulfed by the high crime district, which was moving north all the time. So it wasn’t a theater anymore, even though there were still busts of Shakespeare and Mozart and so on gazing down from niches in the walls inside.
The stage was still in there, too, but it was crowded with dinette sets now. The Empire Furniture Company had taken over the premises now. It was gangster-controlled.
•••
The nickname for Bunny’s neighborhood was Skid Row. Every American town of any size had a neighborhood with the same nickname: Skid Row. It was a place where people who didn’t have any friends or relatives or property or usefulness or ambition were supposed to go.
People like that would be treated with disgust in other neighborhoods, and policemen would keep them moving. They were as easy to move, usually, as toy balloons.
And they would drift hither and yon, like balloons filled with some gas slightly heavier than air, until they came to rest in Skid Row, against the foundations of the old Fairchild Hotel.
They could snooze and mumble to each other all day long. They could beg. They could get drunk. The basic scheme was this one: they were to stay there and not bother anybody anywhere else—until they were murdered for thrills, or until they were frozen to death by the wintertime.
•••
Kilgore Trout wrote a story one time about a town which decided to tell derelicts where they were and what was about to happen to them by putting up actual street signs like this:

 Bunny now smiled at himself in the mirror, in the leak.
He called himself to attention for a moment, became again the insufferably brainless, humorless, heartless soldier he had learned to be in military school. He murmured the motto of the school, a motto he used to have to shout about a hundred times a day—at dawn, at meals, at the start of every class, at games, at bayonet practice, at sunset, at bedtime:
“Can do” he said. “Can do.”

18
THE GALAXIE in which Kilgore Trout was a passenger was on the Interstate
now, close to Midland City. It was creeping. It was trapped in rush hour traffic from Barrytron and Western Electric and Prairie Mutual. Trout looked up from his reading, saw a billboard which said this:
  So Sacred Miracle Cave had become a part of the past. •••
As an old, old man, Trout would be asked by Dr. Thor Lembrig, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, if he feared the future. He would give this reply:
“Mr. Secretary-General, it is the past which scares the bejesus out of me.”
•••
Dwayne Hoover was only four miles away. He was sitting alone on a zebra-skin banquette in the cocktail lounge of the new Holiday Inn. It was dark in there, and quiet, too. The glare and uproar of rush hour traffic on the

Interstate was blocked out by thick drapes of crimson velvet. On each table was a hurricane lamp with a candle inside, although the air was still.
On each table was a bowl of dry-roasted peanuts, too, and a sign which allowed the staff to refuse service to anyone who was inharmonious with the mood of the lounge. Here is what it said:
•••
Bunny Hoover was controlling the piano. He had not looked up when his father came in. Neither had his father glanced in his direction. They had not exchanged greetings for many years.
Bunny went on playing his white man’s blues. They were slow and tinkling, with capricious silences here and there. Bunny’s blues had some of the qualities of a music box, a tired music box. They tinkled, stopped, then reluctantly, torpidly, they managed a few tinkles more.
Bunny’s mother used to collect tinkling music boxes, among other things.
•••
Listen: Francine Pefko was at Dwayne’s automobile agency next door. She was catching up on all the work she should have done that afternoon. Dwayne would beat her up very soon.
And the only other person on the property with her as she typed and filed was Wayne Hoobler, the black parolee, who still lurked among the used cars. Dwayne would try to beat him up, too, but Wayne was a genius at dodging blows.
Francine was pure machinery at the moment, a machine made of meat— a typing machine, a filing machine.
 
Wayne Hoobler, on the other hand, had nothing machine-like to do. He ached to be a useful machine. The used cars were all locked up tight for the night. Now and then aluminum propellors on a wire overhead would be turned by a lazy breeze, and Wayne would respond to them as best he could. “Go,” he would say to them. “Spin ’roun’.”
•••
He established a sort of relationship with the traffic on the Interstate, too, appreciating its changing moods. “Everybody goin’ home,” he said during the rush hour jam. “Everybody home now,” he said later on, when the traffic thinned out. Now the sun was going down.
“Sun goin’ down,” said Wayne Hoobler. He had no clues as to where to go next. He supposed without minding much that he might die of exposure that night. He had never seen death by exposure, had never been threatened by it, since he had so seldom been out-of-doors. He knew of death by exposure because the papery voice of the little radio in his cell told of people’s dying of exposure from time to time.
He missed that papery voice. He missed the clash of steel doors. He missed the bread and the stew and the pitchers of milk and coffee. He missed fucking other men in the mouth and the asshole, and being fucked in the mouth and the asshole, and jerking off—and fucking cows in the prison dairy, all events in a normal sex life on the planet, as far as he knew.
Here would be a good tombstone for Wayne Hoobler when he died:
•••
The dairy at the prison provided milk and cream and butter and cheese
 
and ice cream not only for the prison and the County Hospital. It sold its products to the outside world, too. Its trademark didn’t mention prison. This was it:
•••
Wayne couldn’t read very well. The words Hawaii and Hawaiian, for instance, appeared in combination with more familiar words and symbols in signs painted on the windows of the showroom and on the windshields of some used cars. Wayne tried to decode the mysterious words phonetically, without any satisfaction. “Wahee-io,” he would say, and “Hoo-he-woo-hi,” and so on.
•••
Wayne Hoobler smiled now, not because he was happy but because, with so little to do, he thought he might as well show off his teeth. They were excellent teeth. The Adult Correctional Institution at Shepherdstown was proud of its dentistry program.
It was such a famous dental program, in fact, that it had been written up in medical journals and in the Reader’s Digest, which was the dying planet’s
 
most popular magazine. The theory behind the program was that many ex- convicts could not or would not get jobs because of their appearances, and good looks began with good teeth.
The program was so famous, in fact, that police even in neighboring states, when they picked up a poor man with expensively maintained teeth, fillings and bridgework and all that, were likely to ask him, “All right, boy— how many years you spend in Shepherdstown?”
•••
Wayne Hoobler heard some of the orders which a waitress called to the bartender in the cocktail lounge. Wayne heard her call, “Gilbey’s and quinine, with a twist” He had no idea what that was—or a Manhattan or a brandy Alexander or a sloe gin fizz. “Give me a Johnnie Walker Rob Roy,” she called, “and a Southern Comfort on the rocks, and a Bloody Mary with Wolfschmidt’s.”
Wayne’s only experiences with alcohol had had to do with drinking cleaning fluids and eating shoe polish and so on. He had no fondness for alcohol.
•••
“Give me a Black and White and water,” he heard the waitress say, and Wayne should have pricked up his ears at that. That particular drink wasn’t for any ordinary person. That drink was for the person who had created all Wayne’s misery to date, who could kill him or make him a millionaire or send him back to prison or do whatever he damn pleased with Wayne. That drink was for me.
•••
I had come to the Arts Festival incognito. I was there to watch a confrontation between two human beings I had created: Dwayne Hoover and Kilgore Trout. I was not eager to be recognized. The waitress lit the hurricane lamp on my table. I pinched out the flame with my fingers. I had bought a pair of sunglasses at a Holiday Inn outside of Ashtabula, Ohio, where I spent the night before. I wore them in the darkness now. They looked like this:

 The lenses were silvered, were mirrors to anyone looking my way. Anyone wanting to know what my eyes were like was confronted with his or her own twin reflections. Where other people in the cocktail lounge had eyes, I had two holes into another universe. I had leaks.
•••
There was a book of matches on my table, next to my Pall Mall cigarettes.
Here is the message on the book of matches, which I read an hour and a half later, while Dwayne was beating the daylights out of Francine Pefko:
“It’s easy to make $100 a week in your spare time by showing comfortable, latest style Mason shoes to your friends. EVERYBODY goes for Mason shoes with their many special comfort features! We’ll send FREE moneymaking kit so you can run your business from home. We’ll even tell you how you can earn shoes FREE OF COST as a bonus for taking profitable orders!”
And so on.
•••
“This is a very bad book you’re writing,” I said to myself behind my
leaks.
“I know,” I said.
“You’re afraid you’ll kill yourself the way your mother did,” I said. “I know,” I said.
•••
There in the cocktail lounge, peering out through my leaks at a world of my own invention, I mouthed this word: schizophrenia.

The sound and appearance of the word had fascinated me for many years. It sounded and looked to me like a human being sneezing in a blizzard of soapflakes.
I did not and do not know for certain that I have that disease. This much I knew and know: I was making myself hideously uncomfortable by not narrowing my attention to details of life which were immediately important, and by refusing to believe what my neighbors believed.
•••
I am better now.
Word of honor: I am better now.
•••
I was really sick for a while, though. I sat there in a cocktail lounge of my own invention, and I stared through my leaks at a white cocktail waitress of my own invention. I named her Bonnie MacMahon. I had her bring Dwayne Hoover his customary drink, which was a House of Lords martini with a twist of lemon peel. She was a longtime acquaintance of Dwayne’s. Her husband was a guard in the Sexual Offenders’ Wing of the Adult Correctional Institution. Bonnie had to work as a waitress because her husband lost all their money by investing it in a car wash in Shepherdstown.
Dwayne had advised them not to do it. Here is how Dwayne knew her and her husband Ralph: They had bought nine Pontiacs from him over the past sixteen years.
“We’re a Pontiac family,” they’d say.
Bonnie made a joke now as she served him his martini. She made the same joke every time she served anybody a martini. “Breakfast of Champions,” she said.
•••
The expression “Breakfast of Champions” is a registered trademark of General Mills, Inc., for use on a breakfast cereal product. The use of the identical expression as the title for this book as well as throughout the book is

not intended to indicate an association with or sponsorship by General Mills, nor is it intended to disparage their fine products.
•••
Dwayne was hoping that some of the distinguished visitors to the Arts Festival, who were all staying at the Inn, would come into the cocktail lounge. He wanted to talk to them, if he could, to discover whether they had truths about life which he had never heard before. Here is what he hoped new truths might do for him: enable him to laugh at his troubles, to go on living, and to keep out of the North Wing of the Midland County General Hospital, which was for lunatics.
While he waited for an artist to appear, he consoled himself with the only artistic creation of any depth and mystery which was stored in his head. It was a poem he had been forced to learn by heart during his sophomore year in Sugar Creek High School, the elite white high school at the time. Sugar Creek High was a Nigger high school now. Here was the poem:
The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ, Moves on: nor all your Piety nor Wit
Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line
Nor all your Tears wash out a Word of it.
Some poem!
•••
And Dwayne was so open to new suggestions about the meaning of life that he was easily hypnotized. So, when he looked down into his martini, he was put into a trance by dancing myriads of winking eyes on the surface of his drink. The eyes were beads of lemon oil.
Dwayne missed it when two distinguished visitors to the Arts Festival came in and sat down on barstools next to Bunny’s piano. They were white. They were Beatrice Keedsler, the Gothic novelist, and Rabo Karabekian, the minimal painter.
Bunny’s piano, a Steinway baby grand, was armored with pumpkin- colored Formica and ringed with stools. People could eat and drink from the piano. On the previous Thanksgiving, a family of eleven had had Thanksgiving dinner served on the piano. Bunny played.

•••
“This has to be the asshole of the Universe,” said Rabo Karabekian, the minimal painter.
Beatrice Keedsler, the Gothic novelist, had grown up in Midland City. “I was petrified about coming home after all these years,” she said to Karabekian.
“Americans are always afraid of coming home,” said Karabekian, “with good reason, may I say.”
“They used to have good reason,” said Beatrice, “but not anymore. The past has been rendered harmless. I would tell any wandering American now, ‘Of course you can go home again, and as often as you please. It’s just a motel.’”
•••
Traffic on the westbound barrel of the Interstate had come to a halt a mile east of the new Holiday Inn—because of a fatal accident on Exit 10A. Drivers and passengers got out of their cars—to stretch their legs and find out, if they could, what the trouble was up ahead.
Kilgore Trout was among those who got out. He learned from others that the new Holiday Inn was within easy walking distance. So he gathered up his parcels from the front seat of the Galaxie. He thanked the driver, whose name he had forgotten, and he began to trudge.
He also began to assemble in his mind a system of beliefs which would be appropriate to his narrow mission in Midland City, which was to show provincials, who were bent on exalting creativity, a would-be creator who had failed and failed. He paused in his trudge to examine himself in the rearview mirror, the rearview leak, of a truck locked up in traffic. The tractor was pulling two trailers instead of one. Here was the message the owners of the rig saw fit to shriek at human beings wherever it went:
 
Trout’s image in the leak was as shocking as he had hoped it would be. He had not washed up after his drubbing by The Pluto Gang, so there was caked blood on one earlobe, and more under his left nostril. There was dog shit on a shoulder of his coat. He had collapsed into dog shit on the handball court under the Queensboro Bridge after the robbery.
By an unbelievable coincidence, that shit came from the wretched greyhound belonging to a girl I knew.
•••
The girl with the greyhound was an assistant lighting director for a musical comedy about American history, and she kept her poor greyhound, who was named Lancer, in a one-room apartment fourteen feet wide and twenty-six feet long, and six flights of stairs above street level. His entire life was devoted to unloading his excrement at the proper time and place. There were two proper places to put it: in the gutter outside the door seventy-two steps below, with the traffic whizzing by, or in a roasting pan his mistress kept in front of the Westinghouse refrigerator.
Lancer had a very small brain, but he must have suspected from time to time, just as Wayne Hoobler did, that some kind of terrible mistake had been made.
•••
Trout trudged onward, a stranger in a strange land. His pilgrimage was rewarded with new wisdom, which would never have been his had he remained in his basement in Cohoes. He learned the answer to a question many human beings were asking themselves so frantically: “What’s blocking traffic on the westbound barrel of the Midland City stretch of the Interstate?”
The scales fell from the eyes of Kilgore Trout. He saw the explanation: a Queen of the Prairies milk truck was lying on its side, blocking the flow. It had been hit hard by a ferocious 1971 Chevrolet Caprice two-door. The Chevy had jumped the median divider strip. The Chevy’s passenger hadn’t used his seat belt. He had shot right through the shatterproof windshield. He was lying dead now in the concrete trough containing Sugar Creek. The Chevy’s driver was also dead. He had been skewered by the post of his steering wheel.

The Chevy’s passenger was bleeding blood as he lay dead in Sugar Creek. The milk truck was bleeding milk. Milk and blood were about to be added to the composition of the stinking ping-pong balls which were being manufactured in the bowels of Sacred Miracle Cave.

19
I WAS ON A PAR with the Creator of the Universe there in the dark in the
cocktail lounge. I shrunk the Universe to a ball exactly one light-year in diameter. I had it explode. I had it disperse itself again.
Ask me a question, any question. How old is the Universe? It is one half-second old, but that half-second has lasted one quintillion years so far. Who created it? Nobody created it. It has always been here.
What is time? It is a serpent which eats its tail, like this:
This is the snake which uncoiled itself long enough to offer Eve the apple, which looked like this:
   What was the apple which Eve and Adam ate? It was the Creator of the Universe.
And so on.
Symbols can be so beautiful, sometimes.
•••

Listen:
The waitress brought me another drink. She wanted to light my hurricane lamp again. I wouldn’t let her. “Can you see anything in the dark, with your sunglasses on?” she asked me.
“The big show is inside my head,” I said.
“Oh,” she said.
“I can tell fortunes,” I said. “You want your fortune told?”
“Not right now,” she said. She went back to the bar, and she and the bartender had some sort of conversation about me, I think. The bartender took several anxious looks in my direction. All he could see were the leaks over my eyes. I did not worry about his asking me to leave the establishment. I had created him, after all. I gave him a name: Harold Newcomb Wilbur. I awarded him the Silver Star, the Bronze Star, the Soldier’s Medal, the Good Conduct Medal, and a Purple Heart with two Oak-Leaf Clusters, which made him the second most decorated veteran in Midland City. I put all his medals under his handkerchiefs in a dresser drawer.
He won all those medals in the Second World War, which was staged by robots so that Dwayne Hoover could give a free-willed reaction to such a holocaust. The war was such an extravaganza that there was scarcely a robot anywhere who didn’t have a part to play. Harold Newcomb Wilbur got his medals for killing Japanese, who were yellow robots. They were fueled by rice.
And he went on staring at me, even though I wanted to stop him now. Here was the thing about my control over the characters I created: I could only guide their movements approximately, since they were such big animals. There was inertia to overcome. It wasn’t as though I was connected to them by steel wires. It was more as though I was connected to them by stale rubberbands.
So I made the green telephone in back of the bar ring. Harold Newcomb Wilbur answered it, but he kept his eyes on me. I had to think fast about who was on the other end of the telephone. I put the first most decorated veteran in Midland City on the other end. He had a penis eight hundred miles long and two hundred and ten miles in diameter, but practically all of it was in the fourth dimension. He got his medals in the war in Viet Nam. He had also fought yellow robots who ran on rice.

“Cocktail lounge,” said Harold Newcomb Wilbur. “Hal—?”
“Yes?”
“This is Ned Lingamon.”
“I’m busy.”
“Don’t hang up. The cops got me down at City Jail. They only let me have one call, so I called you.”
“Why me?”
“You’re the only friend I got left.” “What they got you in for?” “They say I killed my baby.”
And so on.
This man, who was white, had all the medals Harold Newcomb Wilbur had, plus the highest decoration for heroism which an American soldier could receive, which looked like this:
He had now also committed the lowest crime which an American could commit, which was to kill his own child. Her name was Cynthia Anne, and she certainly didn’t live very long before she was made dead again. She got killed for crying and crying. She wouldn’t shut up.
 
First she drove her seventeen-year-old mother away with all her demands, and then her father killed her.
And so on.
•••
As for the fortune I might have told for the waitress, this was it: “You will be swindled by termite exterminators and not even know it. You will buy steel-belted radial tires for the front wheels of your car. Your cat will be killed by a motorcyclist named Headley Thomas, and you will get another cat. Arthur, your brother in Atlanta, will find eleven dollars in a taxicab.”
•••
I might have told Bunny Hoover’s fortune, too: “Your father will become extremely ill, and you will respond so grotesquely that there will be talk of putting you in the booby hatch, too. You will stage scenes in the hospital waiting room, telling doctors and nurses that you are to blame for your father’s disease. You will blame yourself for trying for so many years to kill him with hatred. You will redirect your hatred. You will hate your mom.”
And so on.
And I had Wayne Hoobler, the black ex-convict, stand bleakly among the garbage cans outside the back door of the Inn, and examine the currency which had been given to him at the prison gate that morning. He had nothing else to do.
He studied the pyramid with the blazing eye on top. He wished he had more information about the pyramid and the eye. There was so much to learn!
Wayne didn’t even know the Earth revolved around the Sun. He thought the Sun revolved around the Earth, because it certainly looked that way.
A truck sizzled by on the Interstate, seemed to cry out in pain to Wayne, because he read the message on the side of it phonetically. The message told Wayne that the truck was in agony, as it hauled things from here to there. This was the message, and Wayne said it out loud:

 •••
Here was what was going to happen to Wayne in about four days— because I wanted it to happen to him: He would be picked up and questioned by policemen, because he was behaving suspiciously outside the back gate of Barrytron, Ltd., which was involved in super-secret weapons work. They thought at first that he might be pretending to be stupid and ignorant, that he might, in fact, be a cunning spy for the Communists.
A check of his fingerprints and his wonderful dental work proved that he was who he said he was. But there was still something else he had to explain: What was he doing with a membership card in the Playboy Club of America, made out in the name of Paulo di Capistrano? He had found it in a garbage can in back of the new Holiday Inn.
And so on.
•••
And it was time now for me to have Rabo Karabekian, the minimalist painter, and Beatrice Keedsler, the novelist, say and do some more stuff for the sake of this book. I did not want to spook them by staring at them as I worked their controls, so I pretended to be absorbed in drawing pictures on my tabletop with a damp fingertip.
I drew the Earthling symbol for nothingness, which was this:
I drew the Earthling symbol for everything, which was this:
 
 Dwayne Hoover and Wayne Hoobler knew the first one, but not the second one. And now I drew a symbol in vanishing mist which was bitterly familiar to Dwayne but not to Wayne. This was it:
And now I drew a symbol whose meaning Dwayne had known for a few years in school, a meaning which had since eluded him. The symbol would have looked like the end of a table in a prison dining hall to Wayne. It represented the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. This ratio could also be expressed as a number, and even as Dwayne and Wayne and Karabekian and Beatrice Keedsler and all the rest of us went about our business, Earthling scientists were monotonously radioing that number into outer space. The idea was to show other inhabited planets, in case they were listening, how intelligent we were. We had tortured circles until they coughed up this symbol of their secret lives:
•••
And I made an invisible duplicate on my Formica tabletop of a painting by Rabo Karabekian, entitled The Temptation of Saint Anthony. My duplicate was a miniature of the real thing, and mine was not in color, but I had captured the picture’s form and the spirit, too. This is what I drew.
   The original was twenty feet wide and sixteen feet high. The field was

Hawaiian Avocado, a green wall paint manufactured by the O’Hare Paint and Varnish Company in Hellertown, Pennsylvania. The vertical stripe was dayglo orange reflecting tape. This was the most expensive piece of art, not counting buildings and tombstones, and not counting the statue of Abraham Lincoln in front of the old Nigger high school.
It was a scandal what the painting cost. It was the first purchase for the permanent collection of the Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts. Fred T. Barry, the Chairman of the Board of Barrytron, Ltd., had coughed up fifty thousand dollars of his own for the picture.
Midland City was outraged. So was I. •••
So was Beatrice Keedsler, but she kept her dismay to herself as she sat at the piano bar with Karabekian. Karabekian, who wore a sweatshirt imprinted with the likeness of Beethoven, knew he was surrounded by people who hated him for getting so much money for so little work. He was amused.
Like everybody else in the cocktail lounge, he was softening his brain with alcohol. This was a substance produced by a tiny creature called yeast. Yeast organisms ate sugar and excreted alcohol. They killed themselves by destroying their own environment with yeast shit.
•••
Kilgore Trout once wrote a short story which was a dialogue between two pieces of yeast. They were discussing the possible purposes of life as they ate sugar and suffocated in their own excrement. Because of their limited intelligence, they never came close to guessing that they were making champagne.
•••
So I had Beatrice Keedsler say to Rabo Karabekian there at the piano bar, “This is a dreadful confession, but I don’t even know who Saint Anthony was. Who was he, and why should anybody have wanted to tempt him?”
“I don’t know, and I would hate to find out,” said Karabekian.

“You have no use for truth?” said Beatrice.
“You know what truth is?” said Karabekian. “It’s some crazy thing my neighbor believes. If I want to make friends with him, I ask him what he believes. He tells me, and I say, ‘Yeah, yeah—ain’t it the truth?’”
•••
I had no respect whatsoever for the creative works of either the painter or the novelist. I thought Karabekian with his meaningless pictures had entered into a conspiracy with millionaires to make poor people feel stupid. I thought Beatrice Keedsler had joined hands with other old-fashioned storytellers to make people believe that life had leading characters, minor characters, significant details, insignificant details, that it had lessons to be learned, tests to be passed, and a beginning, a middle, and an end.
As I approached my fiftieth birthday, I had become more and more enraged and mystified by the idiot decisions made by my countrymen. And then I had come suddenly to pity them, for I understood how innocent and natural it was for them to behave so abominably, and with such abominable results: They were doing their best to live like people invented in story books. This was the reason Americans shot each other so often: It was a convenient literary device for ending short stories and books.
Why were so many Americans treated by their government as though their lives were as disposable as paper facial tissues? Because that was the way authors customarily treated bit-part players in their made-up tales.
And so on.
Once I understood what was making America such a dangerous, unhappy nation of people who had nothing to do with real life, I resolved to shun storytelling. I would write about life. Every person would be exactly as important as any other. All facts would also be given equal weightiness. Nothing would be left out. Let others bring order to chaos. I would bring chaos to order, instead, which I think I have done.
If all writers would do that, then perhaps citizens not in the literary trades will understand that there is no order in the world around us, that we must adapt ourselves to the requirements of chaos instead.
It is hard to adapt to chaos, but it can be done. I am living proof of that:

It can be done.
•••
Adapting to chaos there in the cocktail lounge, I now had Bonnie MacMahon, who was exactly as important as anybody else in the Universe, bring more yeast excrement to Beatrice Keedsler and Karabekian. Karabekian’s drink was a Beefeater’s dry martini with a twist of lemon peel, so Bonnie said to him, “Breakfast of Champions.”
“That’s what you said when you brought me my first martini,” said Karabekian.
“I say it every time I give anybody a martini,” said Bonnie.
“Doesn’t that get tiresome?” said Karabekian. “Or maybe that’s why people found cities in Godforsaken places like this—so they can make the same jokes over and over again, until the Bright Angel of Death stops their mouths with ashes.”
“I just try to cheer people up,” said Bonnie. “If that’s a crime, I never heard about it till now. I’ll stop saying it from now on. I beg your pardon. I did not mean to give offense.”
Bonnie detested Karabekian, but she was as sweet as pie to him. She had a policy of never showing her anger about anything there in the cocktail lounge. The largest part of her income by far came from tips, and the way to get big tips was to smile, smile, smile, no matter what. Bonnie had only two goals in life now. She meant to recoup all the money her husband had lost in the car wash in Shepherdstown, and she ached to have steel-belted radial tires for the front wheels of her automobile.
Her husband, meanwhile, was at home watching professional golfers on television, and getting smashed on yeast excrement.
•••
Saint Anthony, incidentally, was an Egyptian who founded the very first monastery, which was a place where men could live simple lives and pray often to the Creator of the Universe, without the distractions of ambition and sex and yeast excrement. Saint Anthony himself sold everything he had when he was young, and he went out into the wilderness and lived alone for twenty

years.
He was often tempted during all those years of perfect solitude by visions of good times he might have had with food and men and women and children and the marketplace and so on.
His biographer was another Egyptian, Saint Athanasius, whose theories on the Trinity, the Incarnation, and the divinity of the Holy Spirit, set down three hundred years after the murder of Christ, were considered valid by Catholics even in Dwayne Hoover’s time.
The Catholic high school in Midland City, in fact, was named in honor of Saint Athanasius. It was named in honor of Saint Christopher at first, but then the Pope, who was head of Catholic churches everywhere, announced that there probably never had been a Saint Christopher, so people shouldn’t honor him anymore.
•••
A black male dishwasher stepped out of the kitchen of the Inn now for a Pall Mall cigarette and some fresh air. He wore a large button on his sweat- soaked white T-shirt which said this:
There were bowls of such buttons around the Inn, for anybody to help himself to, and the dishwasher had taken one in a spirit of levity. He had no use for works of art, except for cheap and simple ones which weren’t meant to live very long. His name was Eldon Robbins, and he had a penis nine inches long and two inches in diameter.
 
Eldon Robbins, too, had spent time in the Adult Correctional Institution, so it was easy for him to recognize Wayne Hoobler, out among the garbage cans, as a new parolee. “Welcome to the real world, Brother,” he said gently and with wry lovingness to Wayne. “When was the last time you ate? This mornin’?”
Wayne shyly acknowledged that this was true. So Eldon took him through a kitchen to a long table where the kitchen staff ate. There was a television setback there, and it was on, and it showed Wayne the beheading of Queen Mary of Scotland. Everybody was all dressed up, and Queen Mary put her head on the block of her own accord.
Eldon arranged for Wayne to get a free steak and mashed potatoes and gravy and anything else he wanted, all prepared by other black men in the kitchen. There was a bowl of Arts Festival buttons on the table, and Eldon made Wayne put one on before he ate. “Wear this at all times” he told Wayne gravely, “and no harm can come to you.”
•••
Eldon revealed to Wayne a peephole, which kitchen workers had drilled through the wall and into the cocktail lounge. “When you get tarred of watchin’ television,” he said, “you can watch the animals in the zoo.”
Eldon himself had a look through the peephole, told Wayne that there was a man seated at the piano bar who had been paid fifty thousand dollars for sticking a piece of yellow tape to a green piece of canvas. He insisted that Wayne take a good look at Karabekian. Wayne obeyed.
And Wayne wanted to remove his eye from the peephole after a few seconds, because he didn’t have nearly enough background information for any sort of understanding of what was going on in the cocktail lounge. The candles puzzled him, for instance. He supposed that the electricity in there had failed, and that somebody had gone to change a fuse. Also, he did not know what to make of Bonnie MacMahon’s costume, which consisted of white cowboy boots and black net stockings with crimson garters plainly showing across several inches of bare thigh, and a tight sequin sort of bathing suit with a puff of pink cotton pinned to its rear.
Bonnie’s back was to Wayne, so he could not see that she wore octagonal, rimless trifocals, and was a horse-faced woman forty-two years

old. He could not see, either, that she was smiling, smiling, smiling, no matter how insulting Karabekian became. He could read Karabekian’s lips, however. He was good at reading lips, as was anyone who had spent any time in Shepherds town. The rule of silence was enforced in the corridors and at meals in Shepherdstown.
•••
Karabekian was saying this to Bonnie, indicating Beatrice Keedsler with a wave of his hand: “This distinguished lady is a famous storyteller, and also a native of this railroad junction. Perhaps you could tell her some recent true stories about her birthplace.”
“I don’t know any,” said Bonnie.
“Oh come now,” said Karabekian. “Every human being in this room must be worth a great novel.” He pointed at Dwayne Hoover. “What is the life story of that man?”
Bonnie limited herself to telling about Dwayne’s dog, Sparky, who couldn’t wag his tail. “So he has to fight all the time,” she said.
“Wonderful,” said Karabekian. He turned to Beatrice. “I’m sure you can use that somewhere.”
“As a matter of fact, I can,” said Beatrice. “That’s an enchanting detail.”
“The more details the better,” said Karabekian. “Thank God for novelists. Thank God there are people willing to write everything down. Otherwise, so much would be forgotten!” He begged Bonnie for more true stories.
Bonnie was deceived by his enthusiasm and energized by the idea that Beatrice Keedsler honestly needed true stories for her books. “Well—” she said, “would you consider Shepherdstown part of Midland City, more or less?”
“Of course,” said Karabekian, who had never heard of Shepherdstown. “What would Midland City be without Shepherdstown? And what would Shepherdstown be without Midland City?”
“Well—” said Bonnie, and she thought she had what was maybe a really good story to tell, “my husband is a guard at the Shepherdstown Adult Correctional Institution, and he used to have to keep people who were going

to be electrocuted company—back when they used to electrocute people all the time. He’d play cards with them, or read parts of the Bible out loud to them, or whatever they wanted to do, and he had to keep a white man named Leroy Joyce company.”
Bonnie’s costume gave off a faint, fishy, queer glow as she spoke. This was because her garments were heavily impregnated with fluorescent chemicals. So was the bartender’s jacket. So were the African masks on the walls. The chemicals would shine like electric signs when ultraviolet lights in the ceiling were energized. The lights weren’t on just now. The bartender turned them on at random times, at his own whim, in order to give the customers a delightful and mystifying surprise.
The power for the lights and for everything electrical in Midland City, incidentally, was generated by coal from strip mines in West Virginia, through which Kilgore Trout had passed not many hours before.
•••
“Leroy Joyce was so dumb,” Bonnie went on, “he couldn’t play cards. He couldn’t understand the Bible. He could hardly talk. He ate his last supper, and then he sat still. He was going to be electrocuted for rape. So my husband sat out in the corridor outside the cell, and he read to himself. He heard Leroy moving around in his cell, but he didn’t worry about it. And then Leroy rattled his tin cup on the bars. My husband thought Leroy wanted some more coffee. So he got up and went over and took the cup. Leroy was smiling as though everything was all right now. He wouldn’t have to go to the electric chair after all. He’d cut off his whatchamacallit and put it in the cup.”
•••
This book is made up, of course, but the story I had Bonnie tell actually happened in real life—in the death house of a penitentiary in Arkansas.
As for Dwayne Hoover’s dog Sparky, who couldn’t wag his tail: Sparky is modeled after a dog my brother owns who has to fight all the time, because he can’t wag his tail. There really is such a dog.
•••

Rabo Karabekian asked Bonnie MacMahon to tell him something about the teen-age girl on the cover of the program for the Festival of the Arts. This was the only internationally famous human being in Midland City. She was Mary Alice Miller, the Women’s Two Hundred Meter Breast Stroke Champion of the World. She was only fifteen, said Bonnie.
Mary Alice was also the Queen of the Festival of the Arts. The cover of the program showed her in a white bathing suit, with her Olympic Gold Medal hanging around her neck. The medal looked like this:
Mary Alice was smiling at a picture of Saint Sebastian, by the Spanish painter El Greco. It had been loaned to the Festival by Eliot Rosewater, the patron of Kilgore Trout. Saint Sebastian was a Roman soldier who had lived seventeen hundred years before me and Mary Alice Miller and Wayne and Dwayne and all the rest of us. He had secretly become a Christian when Christianity was against the law.
And somebody squealed on him. The Emperor Diocletian had him shot by archers. The picture Mary Alice smiled at with such uncritical bliss showed a human being who was so full of arrows that he looked like a porcupine.
Something almost nobody knew about Saint Sebastian, incidentally, since painters liked to put so many arrows into him, was that he survived the incident. He actually got well.
He walked around Rome praising Christianity and bad-mouthing the Emperor, so he was sentenced to death a second time. He was beaten to death by rods.
And so on.
And Bonnie MacMahon told Beatrice and Karabekian that Mary Alice’s
 
father, who was a member of the Parole Board out at Shepherdstown, had taught Mary Alice to swim when she was eight months old, and that he had made her swim at least four hours a day, every day, since she was three.
Rabo Karabekian thought this over, and then he said loudly, so a lot of people could hear him, “What kind of a man would turn his daughter into an outboard motor?”
•••
And now comes the spiritual climax of this book, for it is at this point that I, the author, am suddenly transformed by what I have done so far. This is why I had gone to Midland City: to be born again. And Chaos announced that it was about to give birth to a new me by putting these words in the mouth of Rabo Karabekian: “What kind of a man would turn his daughter into an outboard motor?”
Such a small remark was able to have such thundering consequences because the spiritual matrix of the cocktail lounge was in what I choose to call a pre-earthquake condition. Terrific forces were at work on our souls, but they could do no work, because they balanced one another so nicely.
But then a grain of sand crumbled. One force had a sudden advantage over another, and spiritual continents began to shrug and heave.
One force, surely, was the lust for money which infested so many people in the cocktail lounge. They knew what Rabo Karabekian had been paid for his painting, and they wanted fifty thousand dollars, too. They could have a lot of fan with fifty thousand dollars, or so they believed. But they had to earn money the hard way, just a few dollars at a time, instead. It wasn’t right.
Another force was the fear in these same people that their lives might be ridiculous, that their entire city might be ridiculous. Now the worst had happened: Mary Alice Miller, the one thing about their city which they had supposed was ridicule-proof had just been lazily ridiculed by a man from out- of-town.
And my own pre-earthquake condition must be taken into consideration, too, since I was the one who was being reborn. Nobody else in the cocktail lounge was reborn, as far as I know. The rest got their minds changed, some of them, about the value of modern art.

As for myself: I had come to the conclusion that there was nothing sacred about myself or about any human being, that we were all machines, doomed to collide and collide and collide. For want of anything better to do, we became fans of collisions. Sometimes I wrote well about collisions, which meant I was a writing machine in good repair. Sometimes I wrote badly, which meant I was a writing machine in bad repair. I no more harbored sacredness than did a Pontiac, a mousetrap, or a South Bend Lathe.
I did not expect Rabo Karabekian to rescue me. I had created him, and he was in my opinion a vain and weak and trashy man, no artist at all. But it is Rabo Karabekian who made me the serene Earthling which I am this day.
Listen:
“What kind of a man would turn his daughter into an outboard motor?” he said to Bonnie MacMahon.
Bonnie MacMahon blew up. This was the first time she had blown up since she had come to work in the cocktail lounge. Her voice became as unpleasant as the noise of a handsaw’s cutting galvanized tin. It was loud, too. “Oh yeah?” she said. “Oh yeah?”
Everybody froze. Bunny Hoover stopped playing the piano. Nobody wanted to miss a word.
“You don’t think much of Mary Alice Miller?” she said. “Well, we don’t think much of your painting. I’ve seen better pictures done by a five- year-old.”
Karabekian slid off his barstool so he could face all those enemies standing up. He certainly surprised me. I expected him to retreat in a hail of olives, maraschino cherries and lemon rinds. But he was majestic up there “Listen—” he said so calmly, “I have read the editorial against my painting in your wonderful newspaper. I have read every word of the hate mail you have been thoughtful enough to send to New York.”
This embarrassed people some.
“The painting did not exist until I made it,” Karabekian went on. “Now that it does exist, nothing would make me happier than to have it reproduced again and again, and vastly improved upon, by all the five-year-olds in town. I would love for your children to find pleasantly and playfully what it took me many angry years to find.

“I now give you my word of honor,” he went on, “that the picture your city owns shows everything about life which truly matters, with nothing left out. It is a picture of the awareness of every animal. It is the immaterial core of every animal—the ‘I am’ to which all messages are sent. It is all that is alive in any of us—in a mouse, in a deer, in a cocktail waitress. It is unwavering and pure, no matter what preposterous adventure may befall us. A sacred picture of Saint Anthony alone is one vertical, unwavering band of light. If a cockroach were near him, or a cocktail waitress, the picture would show two such bands of light. Our awareness is all that is alive and maybe sacred in any of us. Everything else about us is dead machinery.
“I have just heard from this cocktail waitress here, this vertical band of light, a story about her husband and an idiot who was about to be executed at Shepherds town. Very well—let a five-year-old paint a sacred interpretation of that encounter. Let that five-year-old strip away the idiocy, the bars, the waiting electric chair, the uniform of the guard, the gun of the guard, the bones and meat of the guard. What is that perfect picture which any five- year-old can paint? Two unwavering bands of light.”
Ecstasy bloomed on the barbaric face of Rabo Karabekian. “Citizens of Midland City, I salute you,” he said. “You have given a home to a masterpiece!”
Dwayne Hoover, incidentally, wasn’t taking any of this in. He was still hypnotized, turned inward. He was thinking about moving fingers writing and moving on, and so forth. He had bats in his bell tower. He was off his rocker. He wasn’t playing with a full deck of cards.

20
WHILE MY LIFE was being renewed by the words of Rabo Karabekian,
Kilgore Trout found himself standing on the shoulder of the Interstate, gazing across Sugar Creek in its concrete trough at the new Holiday Inn. There were no bridges across the creek. He would have to wade.
So he sat down on a guardrail, removed his shoes and socks, rolled his pantlegs to his knees. His bared shins were rococo with varicose veins and scars. So were the shins of my father when he was an old, old man.
Kilgore Trout had my father’s shins. They were a present from me. I gave him my father’s feet, too, which were long and narrow and sensitive. They were azure. They were artistic feet.
•••
Trout lowered his artistic feet into the concrete trough containing Sugar Creek. They were coated at once with a clear plastic substance from the surface of the creek. When, in some surprise, Trout lifted one coated foot from the water, the plastic substance dried in air instantly, sheathed his foot in a thin, skin-tight bootie resembling mother-of-pearl. He repeated the process with his other foot.
The substance was coming from the Barrytron plant. The company was manufacturing a new anti-personnel bomb for the Air Force. The bomb scattered plastic pellets instead of steel pellets, because the plastic pellets were cheaper. They were also impossible to locate in the bodies of wounded enemies by means of x-ray machines.
Barrytron had no idea it was dumping this waste into Sugar Creek. They had hired the Maritimo Brothers Construction Company, which was gangster-controlled, to build a system which would get rid of the waste. They
 
knew the company was gangster-controlled. Everybody knew that. But the Maritimo Brothers were usually the best builders in town. They had built Dwayne Hoover’s house, for instance, which was a solid house.
But every so often they would do something amazingly criminal. The Barrytron disposal system was a case in point. It was expensive, and it appeared to be complicated and busy. Actually, though, it was old junk hooked up every which way, concealing a straight run of stolen sewer pipe running directly from Barrytron to Sugar Creek.
Barrytron would be absolutely sick when it learned what a polluter it had become. Throughout its history, it had attempted to be a perfect model of corporate good citizenship, no matter what it cost.
•••
Trout now crossed Sugar Creek on my father’s legs and feet, and those appendages became more nacreous with every wading stride. He carried his parcels and his shoes and socks on his head, although the water scarcely reached his kneecaps.
He knew how ridiculous he looked. He expected to be received abominably, dreamed of embarrassing the Festival to death. He had come all this distance for an orgy of masochism. He wanted to be treated like a cockroach.
•••
His situation, insofar as he was a machine, was complex, tragic, and laughable. But the sacred part of him, his awareness, remained an unwavering band of light.
And this book is being written by a meat machine in cooperation with a machine made of metal and plastic. The plastic, incidentally, is a close relative of the gunk in Sugar Creek. And at the core of the writing meat machine is something sacred, which is an unwavering band of light.
At the core of each person who reads this book is a band of unwavering light.
My doorbell has just rung in my New York apartment. And I know what I will find when I open my front door: an unwavering band of light.

God bless Rabo Karabekian!
•••
Listen: Kilgore Trout climbed out of the trough and onto the asphalt desert which was the parking lot. It was his plan to enter the lobby of the Inn on wet bare feet, to leave footprints on the carpet—like this:
It was Trout’s fantasy that somebody would be outraged by the footprints. This would give him the opportunity to reply grandly, “What is it that offends you so? I am simply using man’s first printing press. You are reading a bold and universal headline which says, ‘I am here, I am here, I am here.’”
•••
But Trout was no walking printing press. His feet left no marks on the carpet, because they were sheathed in plastic and the plastic was dry. Here was the structure of the plastic molecule:
 
 The molecule went on and on and on, repeating itself forever to form a sheet both tough and poreless.
This molecule was the monster Dwayne’s twin stepbrothers, Lyle and Kyle, had attacked with their automatic shotguns. This was the same stuff which was fucking up Sacred Miracle Cave.
•••
The man who told me how to diagram a segment of a molecule of plastic was Professor Walter H. Stockmayer of Dartmouth College. He is a distinguished physical chemist, and an amusing and useful friend of mine. I did not make him up. I would like to be Professor Walter H. Stockmayer. He is a brilliant pianist. He skis like a dream.
And when he sketched a plausible molecule, he indicated points where it would go on and on just as I have indicated them—with an abbreviation which means sameness without end.
The proper ending for any story about people it seems to me, since life is now a polymer in which the Earth is wrapped so tightly, should be that same abbreviation, which I now write large because I feel like it, which is this one:

 •••
And it is in order to acknowledge the continuity of this polymer that I begin so many sentences with “And” and “So,” and end so many paragraphs with “... and so on.”
And so on.
“It’s all like an ocean!” cried Dostoevski. I say it’s all like cellophane.
•••
So Trout entered the lobby as an inkless printing press, but he was still the most grotesque human being who had ever come in there.
All around him were what other people called mirrors, which he called leaks. The entire wall which separated the lobby from the cocktail lounge was a leak ten feet high and thirty-feet long. There was another leak on the cigarette machine and yet another on the candy machine. And when Trout looked through them to see what was going on in the other universe, he saw a red-eyed, filthy old creature who was barefoot, who had his pants rolled up to his knees.
As it happened, the only other person in the lobby at the time was the beautiful young desk clerk, Milo Maritimo. Milo’s clothing and skin and eyes were all the colors that olives can be. He was a graduate of the Cornell Hotel School. He was the homosexual grandson of Guillermo “Little Willie” Maritimo, a bodyguard of the notorious Chicago gangster, Al Capone.
Trout presented himself to this harmless man, stood before his desk with his bare feet far apart and his arms outspread. “The Abominable Snowman has arrived,” he said to Milo. “If I’m not as clean as most abominable snowmen are, it is because I was kidnapped as a child from the slopes of Mount Everest, and taken as a slave to a bordello in Rio de Janeiro, where I

have been cleaning the unspeakably filthy toilets for the past fifty years. A visitor to our whipping room there screamed in a transport of agony and ecstasy that there was to be an arts festival in Midland City. I escaped down a rope of sheets taken from a reeking hamper. I have come to Midland City to have myself acknowledged, before I die, as the great artist I believe myself to be.”
Milo Maritimo greeted Trout with luminous adoration. “Mr. Trout,” he said in rapture, “I’d know you anywhere. Welcome to Midland City. We need you so!”
“How do you know who I am?” said Kilgore Trout. Nobody had ever known who he was before.
“You had to be you,” said Milo.
Trout was deflated—neutralized. He dropped his arms, became child-
like now. “Nobody ever knew who I was before,” he said.
“I know,” said Milo. “We have discovered you, and we hope you will discover us. No longer will Midland City be known merely as the home of Mary Alice Miller, the Women’s Two Hundred Meter Breast Stroke Champion of the World. It will also be the city which first acknowledged the greatness of Kilgore Trout.”
Trout simply walked away from the desk and sat down on a brocaded Spanish-style settee. The entire lobby, except for the vending machines, was done in Spanish style.
Milo now used a line from a television show which had been popular a few years back. The show wasn’t on the air anymore, but most people still remembered the line. Much of the conversation in the country consisted of lines from television shows, both present and past. The show Milo’s line was from consisted of taking some old person, usually fairly famous, into what looked like an ordinary room, only it was actually a stage, with an audience out front and television cameras hidden all around. There were also people who had known the person in the older days hidden around. They would come out and tell anecdotes about the person later on.
Milo now said what the master of ceremonies would have said to Trout, if Trout had been on the show and the curtain was going up: “Kilgore Trout! This is your life!”

•••
Only there wasn’t any audience or curtain or any of that. And the truth was that Milo Maritimo was the only person in Midland City who knew anything about Kilgore Trout. It was wishful thinking on his part that the upper crust of Midland City was about to be as ga-ga as he was about the works of Kilgore Trout.
“We are so ready for a Renaissance, Mr. Trout! You will be our Leonardo!”
“How could you possibly have heard of me?” said Trout dazedly.
“In getting ready for the Midland City Renaissance,” said Milo, “I made it my business to read everything I could by and about every artist who was on his way here.”
“There isn’t anything by me or about me anywhere,” protested Trout.
Milo came from behind his desk. He brought with him what appeared to be a lopsided old softball, swaddled in many different sorts of tape. “When I couldn’t find out anything about you,” he said, “I wrote to Eliot Rosewater, the man who said we had to bring you here. He has a private collection of forty-one of your novels and sixty-three of your short stories, Mr. Trout. He let me read them all.” He held out the seeming baseball, which was actually a book from Rosewater’s collection. Rosewater used his science-fiction library hard. “This is the only book I haven’t finished, and I’ll finish it before the sun comes up tomorrow,” said Milo.
•••
The novel in question, incidentally, was The Smart Bunny. The leading character was a rabbit who lived like all the other wild rabbits, but who was as intelligent as Albert Einstein or William Shakespeare. It was a female rabbit. She was the only female leading character in any novel or story by Kilgore Trout.
She led a normal female rabbit’s life, despite her ballooning intellect. She concluded that her mind was useless, that it was a sort of tumor, that it had no usefulness within the rabbit scheme of things.
So she went hippity-hop, hippity-hop toward the city, to have the tumor

removed. But a hunter named Dudley Farrow shot and killed her before she got there. Farrow skinned her and took out her guts, but then he and his wife Grace decided that they had better not eat her because of her unusually large head. They thought what she had thought when she was alive—that she must be diseased.
And so on.
•••
Kilgore Trout had to change into his only other garments, his high school tuxedo and his new evening shirt and all, right away. The lower parts of his rolled-up trousers had become impregnated with the plastic substance from the creek, so he couldn’t roll them down again. They were as stiff as flanges on sewer pipes.
So Milo Maritimo showed him to his suite, which was two ordinary Holiday Inn rooms with a door between them open. Trout and every distinguished visitor had a suite, with two color television sets, two tile baths, four double beds equipped with Magic Fingers. Magic Fingers were electric vibrators attached to the mattress springs of a bed. If a guest put a quarter into a little box on his bedside table, the Magic Fingers would jiggle his bed.
There were enough flowers in Trout’s room for a Catholic gangster’s funeral. They were from Fred T. Barry, the Chairman of the Arts Festival, and from the Midland City Association of Women’s Clubs, and from the Chamber of Commerce, and on and on.
Trout read a few of the cards on the flowers, and he commented, “The town certainly seems to be getting behind the arts in a great big way.”
Milo closed his olive eyes tight, wincing with a tangy agony. “It’s time. Oh God, Mr. Trout, we were starving for so long, without even knowing what we were hungering for,” he said. This young man was not only a descendant of master criminals, he was a close relative of felons operating in Midland City at the present time. The partners in the Maritimo Brothers Construction Company, for instance, were his uncles. Gino Maritimo, Milo’s first cousin once removed, was the dope king of the city.
•••

“Oh, Mr. Trout,” nice Milo went on, there in Trout’s suite, “teach us to sing and dance and laugh and cry. We’ve tried to survive so long on money and sex and envy and real estate and football and basketball and automobiles and television and alcohol—on sawdust and broken glass!”
“Open your eyes!” said Trout bitterly. “Do I look like a dancer, a singer, a man of joy?” He was wearing his tuxedo now. It was a size too large for him. He had lost much weight since high school. His pockets were crammed with mothballs. They bulged like saddlebags.
“Open your eyes!” said Trout. “Would a man nourished by beauty look like this? You have nothing but desolation and desperation here, you say? I bring you more of the same!”
“My eyes are open,” said Milo warmly, “and I see exactly what I expect to see. I see a man who is terribly wounded—because he has dared to pass through the fires of truth to the other side, which we have never seen. And then he has come back again—to tell us about the other side.”
•••
And I sat there in the new Holiday Inn, and made it disappear, then appear again, then disappear, then appear again. Actually, there was nothing but a big open field there. A farmer had put it into rye.
It was high time, I thought, for Trout to meet Dwayne Hoover, for Dwayne to run amok.
I knew how this book would end. Dwayne would hurt a lot of people. He would bite off one joint of the right index finger of Kilgore Trout.
And then Trout, with his wound dressed, would walk out into the unfamiliar city. He would meet his Creator, who would explain everything.

21
KILGORE TROUT entered the cocktail lounge. His feet were fiery hot. They were encased not only in shoes and socks, but in clear plastic, too. They
could not sweat, they could not breathe.
Rabo Karabekian and Beatrice Keedsler did not see him come in. They were surrounded by new affectionate friends at the piano bar. Karabekian’s speech had been splendidly received. Everybody agreed now that Midland City had one of the greatest paintings in the world.
“All you had to do was explain,” said Bonnie MacMahon. “I understand now.”
“I didn’t think there was anything to explain,” said Carlo Maritino, the builder, wonderingly. “But there was, by God.”
Abe Cohen, the jeweler, said to Karabekian, “If artists would explain more, people would like art more. You realize that?”
And so on.
Trout was feeling spooky. He thought maybe a lot of people were going to greet him as effusively as Milo Maritimo had done, and he had had no experience with celebrations like that. But nobody got in his way. His old friend Anonymity was by his side again, and the two of them chose a table near Dwayne Hoover and me. All he could see of me was the reflection of candle flames in my mirrored glasses, in my leaks.
Dwayne Hoover was still mentally absent from activities in the cocktail lounge. He sat like a lump of nose putty, staring at something long ago and far away.
Dwayne moved his lips as Trout sat down. He was saying this soundlessly, and it had nothing to do with Trout or me: “Goodbye, Blue Monday.”
 
•••
Trout had a fat manila envelope with him. Milo Maritimo had given it to him. It contained a program for the Festival of the Arts, a letter of welcome to Trout from Fred T. Barry, the Chairman of the Festival, a timetable of events during the coming week—and some other things.
Trout also carried a copy of his novel Now It Can Be Told. This was the wide-open beaver book which Dwayne Hoover would soon take so seriously.
So there the three of us were. Dwayne and Trout and I could have been included in an equilateral triangle about twelve feet on a side.
As three unwavering bands of light, we were simple and separate and beautiful. As machines, we were flabby bags of ancient plumbing and wiring, of rusty hinges and feeble springs. And our interrelationships were Byzantine.
After all, I had created both Dwayne and Trout, and now Trout was about to drive Dwayne into full-blown insanity, and Dwayne would soon bite off the tip of Trout’s finger.
•••
Wayne Hoobler was watching us through a peephole in the kitchen. There was a tap on his shoulder. The man who had fed him now told him to leave.
So he wandered outdoors, and he found himself among Dwayne’s used cars again. He resumed his conversation with the traffic on the Interstate.
•••
The bartender in the cocktail lounge now flicked on the ultraviolet lights in the ceiling. Bonnie MacMahon’s uniform, since it was impregnated with fluorescent materials, lit up like an electric sign.
So did the bartender’s jacket and the African masks on the walls.
So did Dwayne Hoover’s shirt, and the shirts of several other men. The reason was this: Those shirts had been laundered in washday products which contained fluorescent materials. The idea was to make clothes look brighter in sunlight by making them actually fluorescent.

When the same clothes were viewed in a dark room under ultraviolet light, however, they became ridiculously bright.
Bunny Hoover’s teeth also lit up, since he used a toothpaste containing fluorescent materials, which was supposed to make his smile look brighter in daylight. He grinned now, and he appeared to have a mouthful of little Christmas tree lights.
But the brightest new light in the room by far was the bosom of Kilgore Trout’s new evening shirt. Its brilliance twinkled and had depth. It might have been the top of a slumping, open sack of radioactive diamonds.
But then Trout hunched forward involuntarily, buckling the starched shirt bosom, forming it into a parabolic dish. This made a searchlight of the shirt. Its beam was aimed at Dwayne Hoover.
The sudden light roused Dwayne from his trance. He thought perhaps he had died. At any rate, something painless and supernatural was going on. Dwayne smiled trustingly at the holy light. He was ready for anything.
•••
Trout had no explanation for the fantastic transformation of certain garments around the room. Like most science-fiction writers, he knew almost nothing about science. He had no more use for solid information than did Rabo Karabekian. So now he could only be flabbergasted.
My own shirt, being an old one which had been washed many times in a Chinese laundry which used ordinary soap, did not fluoresce.
Dwayne Hoover now lost himself in the bosom of Trout’s shirt, just as he had earlier lost himself in twinkling beads of lemon oil. He remembered now a thing his stepfather had told him when he was only ten years old, which was this: Why there were no Niggers in Shepherdstown.
This was not a completely irrelevant recollection. Dwayne had, after all, been talking to Bonnie MacMahon, whose husband had lost so much money in a car wash in Shepherdstown. And the main reason the car wash had failed was that successful car washes needed cheap and plentiful labor, which meant black labor—and there were no Niggers in Shepherdstown.
“Years ago,” Dwayne’s stepfather told Dwayne when Dwayne was ten, “Niggers was coming up north by the millions—to Chicago, to Midland City,

to Indianapolis, to Detroit. The World War was going on. There was such a labor shortage that even Niggers who couldn’t read or write could get good factory jobs. Niggers had money like they never had before.
“Over at Shepherdstown, though,” he went on, “the white people got smart quick. They didn’t want Niggers in their town, so they put up signs on the main roads at the city limits and in the railroad yard.” Dwayne’s stepfather described the signs, which looked like this:
“One night—” Dwayne’s stepfather said, “a Nigger family got off a boxcar in Shepherdstown. Maybe they didn’t see the sign. Maybe they couldn’t read it. Maybe they couldn’t believe it.” Dwayne’s stepfather was out of work when he told the story so gleefully. The Great Depression had just begun. He and Dwayne were on a weekly expedition in the family car, hauling garbage and trash out into the country, where they dumped it all in Sugar Creek.
“Anyway, they moved into an empty shack that night,” Dwayne’s stepfather went on. “They got a fire going in the stove and all. So a mob went down there at midnight. They took out the man, and they sawed him in two on the top strand of a barbed-wire fence.” Dwayne remembered clearly that a rainbow of oil from the trash was spreading prettily over the surface of Sugar Creek when he heard that.
“Since that night, which was a long time ago now,” his stepfather said, “there ain’t been a Nigger even spend the night in Shepherdstown.
 
•••
Trout was itchingly aware that Dwayne was staring at his bosom so loonily. Dwayne’s eyes swam, and Trout supposed they were swimming in alcohol. He could not know that Dwayne was seeing an oil slick on Sugar Creek which had made rainbows forty long years ago.
Trout was aware of me, too, what little he could see of me. I made him even more uneasy than Dwayne did. The thing was: Trout was the only character I ever created who had enough imagination to suspect that he might be the creation of another human being. He had spoken of this possibility several times to his parakeet. He had said, for instance, “Honest to God, Bill, the way things are going, all I can think of is that I’m a character in a book by somebody who wants to write about somebody who suffers all the time.”
Now Trout was beginning to catch on that he was sitting very close to the person who had created him. He was embarrassed. It was hard for him to know how to respond, particularly since his responses were going to be anything I said they were.
I went easy on him, didn’t wave, didn’t stare. I kept my glasses on. I wrote again on my tabletop, scrawled the symbols for the interrelationship between matter and energy as it was understood in my day:
It was a flawed equation, as far as I was concerned. There should have been an “A” in there somewhere for Awareness—without which the “E” and the “M” and the “c,” which was a mathematical constant; could not exist.
•••
All of us were stuck to the surface of a ball, incidentally. The planet was ball-shaped. Nobody knew why we didn’t fall off, even though everybody pretended to kind of understand it.
The really smart people understood that one of the best ways to get rich was to own a part of the surface people had to stick to.
 
•••
Trout dreaded eye contact with either Dwayne or me, so he went through the contents of the manila envelope which had been waiting for him in his suite.
The first thing he examined was a letter from Fred T. Barry, the Chairman of the Festival of the Arts, the donor of the Mildred Barry Memorial Center for the Arts, and the founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Barrytron, Ltd.
Clipped to the letter was one share of common stock in Barrytron, made out in the name of Kilgore Trout. Here was the letter:
“Dear Mr. Trout:” it said, “It is a pleasure and an honor to have such a distinguished and creative person give his precious time to Midland City’s first Festival of the Arts. It is our wish that you feel like a member of our family while you are here. To give you and other distinguished visitors a deeper sense of participation in the life of our community, I am making a gift to each of you of one share in the company which I founded, the company of which I am now Chairman of the Board. It is not only my company now, but yours as well.
“Our company began as The Robo-Magic Corporation of America in 1934. It had three employees in the beginning, and its mission was to design and manufacture the first fully automatic washing machine for use in the home. You will find the motto of that washing machine on the corporate emblem at the top of the stock certificate.”
The emblem consisted of a Greek goddess on an ornate chaise longue. She held a flagstaff from which a long pennant streamed. Here is what the pennant said:
 
•••
The motto of the old Robo-Magic washing machine cleverly confused two separate ideas people had about Monday. One idea was that women traditionally did their laundry on Monday. Monday was simply washday, and not an especially depressing day on that account.
People who had horrible jobs during the week used to call Monday “Blue Monday” sometimes, though, because they hated to return to work after a day of rest. When Fred T. Barry made up the Robo-Magic motto as a young man, he pretended that Monday was called “Blue Monday” because doing the laundry disgusted and exhausted women.
The Robo-Magic was going to cheer them up. •••
It wasn’t true, incidentally, that most women did their laundry on Monday at the time the Robo-Magic was invented. They did it any time they felt like it. One of Dwayne Hoover’s clearest recollections from the Great Depression, for instance, was when his stepmother decided to do the laundry on Christmas Eve. She was bitter about the low estate to which the family had fallen, and she suddenly clumped down into the basement, down among the black beetles and the millipedes, and did the laundry.
“Time to do the Nigger work,” she said. •••
Fred T. Barry began advertising the Robo-Magic in 1933, long before there was a reliable machine to sell. And he was one of the few persons in Midland City who could afford billboard advertising during the Great Depression, so the Robo-Magic sales message did not have to jostle and shriek for attention. It was practically the only symbol in town.
One of Fred’s ads was on a billboard outside the main gate of the defunct Keedsler Automobile Company, which the Robo-Magic Corporation had taken over. It showed a high society woman in a fur coat and pearls. She was leaving her mansion for a pleasant afternoon of idleness, and a balloon was coming out of her mouth. These were the words in the balloon:

 Another ad, which was painted on a billboard by the railroad depot, showed two white deliverymen who were bringing a Robo-Magic into a house. A black maid was watching them. Her eyes were popping out in a comical way. There was a balloon coming out of her mouth, too, and she was saying this:
•••
Fred T. Barry wrote these ads himself, and he predicted at the time that Robo-Magic appliances of various sorts would eventually do what he called “all the Nigger work of the world,” which was lifting and cleaning and cooking and washing and ironing and tending children and dealing with filth.
Dwayne Hoover’s stepmother wasn’t the only white woman who was a terrible sport about doing work like that. My own mother was that way, too, and so was my sister, may she rest in peace. They both flatly refused to do Nigger work.
The white men wouldn’t do it either, of course. They called it women’s work, and the women called it Nigger work.
•••
 
I am going to make a wild guess now: I think that the end of the Civil War in my country frustrated the white people in the North, who won it, in a way which has never been acknowledged before. Their descendants inherited that frustration, I think, without ever knowing what it was.
The victors in that war were cheated out of the most desirable spoils of that war, which were human slaves.
•••
The Robo-Magic dream was interrupted by World War Two. The old Keedsler Automobile Works became an armory instead of an appliance factory. All that survived of the Robo-Magic itself was its brain, which had told the rest of the machine when to let the water in, when to let the water out, when to slosh, when to rinse, when to spin dry, and so on.
That brain became the nerve center of the so-called “BLINC System” during the Second World War. It was installed on heavy bombers, and it did the actual dropping of bombs after a bombardier pressed his bright red “bombs away” button. The button activated the BLINC System, which then released the bombs in such a way as to achieve a desired pattern of explosions on the planet below. “BLINC” was an abbreviation of “Blast Interval Normalization Computer.”

22
AND I SAT THERE in the cocktail lounge of the new Holiday Inn, watching Dwayne Hoover stare into the bosom of the shirt of Kilgore Trout. I was
wearing a bracelet which looked like this:
WO1 stood for Warrant Officer First Class, which was the rank of Jon Sparks.
The bracelet had cost me two dollars and a half. It was a way of expressing my pity for the hundreds of Americans who had been taken prisoner during the war in Viet Nam. Such bracelets were becoming popular. Each one bore the name of an actual prisoner of war, his rank, and the date of his capture.
Wearers of the bracelets weren’t supposed to take them off until the prisoners came home or were reported dead or missing.
I wondered how I might fit my bracelet into my story, and hit on the good idea of dropping it somewhere for Wayne Hoobler to find.
Wayne would assume that it belonged to a woman who loved somebody named WOI Jon Sparks, and that the woman and WOI had become engaged or married or something important on March 19th, 1971.
Wayne would mouth the unusual first name tentatively. “Woo-ee?” he would say. “Woe-ee? Woe-eye? Woy?”
•••
  
There in the cocktail lounge, I gave Dwayne Hoover credit for having taken a course in speed-reading at night at the Young Men’s Christian Association. This would enable him to read Kilgore Trout’s novel in minutes instead of hours.
•••
There in the cocktail lounge, I took a white pill which a doctor said I could take in moderation, two a day, in order not to feel blue.
•••
There in the cocktail lounge, the pill and the alcohol gave me a terrific sense of urgency about explaining all the things I hadn’t explained yet, and then hurtling on with my tale.
Let’s see: I have already explained Dwayne’s uncharacteristic ability to read so fast. Kilgore Trout probably couldn’t have made his trip from New York City in the time I allotted, but it’s too late to bugger around with that. Let it stand, let it stand!
Let’s see, let’s see. Oh, yes—I have to explain a jacket Trout will see at the hospital. It will look like this from the back:
Here is the explanation: There used to be only one Nigger high school in Midland City, and it was an all-Nigger high school still. It was named after Crispus Attucks, a black man who was shot by British troops in Boston in
 
1770. There was an oil painting of this event in the main corridor of the school. Several white people were stopping bullets, too. Crispus Attucks himself had a hole in his forehead which looked like the front door of a birdhouse.
But the black people didn’t call the school Crispus Attucks High School anymore. They called it Innocent Bystander High.
And when another Nigger high school was built after the Second World War, it was named after George Washington Carver, a black man who was born into slavery, but who became a famous chemist anyway. He discovered many remarkable new uses for peanuts.
But the black people wouldn’t call that school by its proper name, either. On the day it opened, there were already young black people wearing jackets which looked like this from the back:
•••
I have to explain, too, see, why so many black people in Midland City were able to imitate birds from various parts of what used to be the British Empire. The thing was, see, that Fred T. Barry and his mother and father were almost the only people in Midland City who could afford to hire Niggers to do the Nigger work during the Great Depression. They took over the old Keedsler Mansion, where Beatrice Keedsler, the novelist, had been born. They had as many as twenty servants working there, all at one time.
 
Fred’s father got so much money during the prosperity of the twenties as a bootlegger and as a swindler in stocks and bonds. He kept all his money in cash, which turned out to be a bright thing to do, since so many banks failed during the Great Depression. Also: Fred’s father was an agent for Chicago gangsters who wanted to buy legitimate businesses for their children and grandchildren. Through Fred’s father, those gangsters bought almost every desirable property in Midland City for anything from a tenth to a hundredth of what it was really worth.
And before Fred’s mother and father came to the United States after the First World War, they were music hall entertainers in England. Fred’s father played the musical saw. His mother imitated birds from various parts of what was still the British Empire.
She went on imitating them for her own amusement, well into the Great Depression. “The Bulbul of Malaysia,” she would say, for instance, and then she would imitate that bird.
“The Morepark Owl of New Zealand,” she would say, and then she would imitate that bird.
And all the black people who worked for her thought her act was the funniest thing they had ever seen, though they never laughed out loud when she did it. And, in order to double up their friends and relatives with laughter, they, too, learned how to imitate the birds.
The craze spread. Black people who had never been near the Keedsler mansion could imitate the Lyre Bird and the Willy Wagtail of Australia, the Golden Oriole of India, the Nightingale and the Chaffinch and the Wren and the Chiffchaff of England itself.
They could even imitate the happy screech of the extinct companion of Kilgore Trout’s island childhood, which was the Bermuda Em.
When Kilgore Trout hit town, the black people could still imitate those birds, and say word for word what Fred’s mother had said before each imitation. If one of them imitated a Nightingale, for instance, he or she would say this first: “What adds peculiar beauty to the call of the Nightingale, much beloved by poets, is the fact that it will only sing by moonlight.”
And so on.
•••

There in the cocktail lounge, Dwayne Hoover’s bad chemicals suddenly decided that it was time for Dwayne to demand from Kilgore Trout the secrets of life.
“Give me the message,” cried Dwayne. He tottered up from his own banquette, crashed down again next to Trout, throwing off heat like a steam radiator. “The message, please.”
And here Dwayne did something extraordinarily unnatural. He did it because I wanted him to. It was something I had ached to have a character do for years and years. Dwayne did to Trout what the Duchess did to Alice in Lewis Carroll’s Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland. He rested his chin on poor Trout’s shoulder, dug in with his chin.
“The message?” he said, digging in his chin, digging in his chin.
Trout made no reply. He had hoped to get through what little remained of his life without ever having to touch another human being again. Dwayne’s chin on his shoulder was as shattering as buggery to Trout.
“Is this it? Is this it?” said Dwayne, snatching up Trout’s novel, Now It Can Be Told.
“Yes—that’s it,” croaked Trout. To his tremendous relief, Dwayne removed his chin from his shoulder.
Dwayne now began to read hungrily, as though starved for print. And the speed-reading course he had taken at the Young Men’s Christian Association allowed him to make a perfect pig of himself with pages and words.
“Dear Sir, poor sir, brave sir:” he read, “You are an experiment by the Creator of the Universe. You are the only creature in the entire Universe who has free will. You are the only one who has to figure out what to do next— and why. Everybody else is a robot, a machine.
“Some persons seem to like you, and others seem to hate you, and you must wonder why. They are simply liking machines and hating machines.
“You are pooped and demoralized,” read Dwayne. “Why wouldn’t you be? Of course it is exhausting, having to reason all the time in a universe which wasn’t meant to be reasonable.”

23
DWAYNE HOOVER read on: “You are surrounded by loving machines, hating
machines, greedy machines, unselfish machines, brave machines, cowardly machines, truthful machines, lying machines, funny machines, solemn machines,” he read. “Their only purpose is to stir you up in every conceivable way, so the Creator of the Universe can watch your reactions. They can no more feel or reason than grandfather clocks.
“The Creator of the Universe would now like to apologize not only for the capricious, jostling companionship he provided during the test, but for the trashy, stinking condition of the planet itself. The Creator programmed robots to abuse it for millions of years, so it would be a poisonous, festering cheese when you got here. Also, He made sure it would be desperately crowded by programming robots, regardless of their living conditions, to crave sexual intercourse and adore infants more than almost anything.”
•••
Mary Alice Miller, incidentally, the Women’s Breast Stroke Champion of the World and Queen of the Arts Festival, now passed through the cocktail lounge. She made a shortcut to the lobby from the side parking lot, where her father was waiting for her in his avocado 1970 Plymouth Barracuda fastback, which he had bought as a used car from Dwayne. It had a new car guarantee.
Mary Alice’s father, Don Miller, was, among other things, Chairman of the Parole Board at Shepherdstown. It was he who had decided that Wayne Hoobler, lurking among Dwayne’s used cars again, was fit to take his place in society.
Mary Alice went into the lobby to get a crown and scepter for her performance as Queen at the Arts Festival banquet that night. Milo Maritimo, the desk clerk, the gangster’s grandson, had made them with his own two
 
hands. Her eyes were permanently inflamed. They looked like maraschino cherries.
Only one person noticed her sufficiently to comment out loud. He was Abe Cohen, the jeweler. He said this about Mary Alice, despising her sexlessness and innocence and empty mind: “Pure tuna fish!”
•••
Kilgore Trout heard him say that—about pure tuna fish. His mind tried to make sense of it. His mind was swamped with mysteries. He might as well have been Wayne Hoobler, adrift among Dwayne’s used cars during Hawaiian Week.
His feet, which were sheathed in plastic, were meanwhile getting hotter all the time. The heat was painful now. His feet were curling and twisting, begging to be plunged into cold water or waved in the air.
And Dwayne read on about himself and the Creator of the Universe, to wit:
“He also programmed robots to write books and magazines and newspapers for you, and television and radio shows, and stage shows, and films. They wrote songs for you. The Creator of the Universe had them invent hundreds of religions, so you would have plenty to choose among. He had them kill each other by the millions, for this purpose only: that you be amazed. They have committed every possible atrocity and every possible kindness unfeelingly, automatically, inevitably, to get a reaction from Y-O- U.”
This last word was set in extra-large type and had a line all to itself, so it looked like this:
•••
“Every time you went into the library,” said the book, “the Creator of the Universe held His breath. With such a higgledy-piggledy cultural
 
smorgasbord before you, what would you, with your free will, choose?”
“Your parents were fighting machines and self-pitying machines,” said the book. “Your mother was programmed to bawl out your father for being a defective moneymaking machine, and your father was programmed to bawl her out for being a defective housekeeping machine. They were programmed to bawl each other out for being defective loving machines.
“Then your father was programmed to stomp out of the house and slam the door. This automatically turned your mother into a weeping machine. And your father would go down to a tavern where he would get drunk with some other drinking machines. Then all the drinking machines would go to a whorehouse and rent fucking machines. And then your father would drag himself home to become an apologizing machine. And your mother would become a very slow forgiving machine.”
•••
Dwayne got to his feet now, having wolfed down tens of thousands of words of such solipsistic whimsey in ten minutes or so.
He walked stiffly over to the piano bar. What made him stiff was his awe of his own strength and righteousness. He dared not use his full strength in merely walking, for fear of destroying the new Holiday Inn with footfalls. He did not fear for his own life, Trout’s book assured him that he had already been killed twenty-three times. On each occasion, the Creator of the Universe had patched him up and got him going again.
Dwayne restrained himself in the name of elegance rather than safety. He was going to respond to his new understanding of life with finesse, for an audience of two—himself and his Creator.
He approached his homosexual son.
Bunny saw the trouble coming, supposed it was death. He might have protected himself easily with all the techniques of fighting he had learned in military school. But he chose to meditate instead. He closed his eyes, and his awareness sank into the silence of the unused lobes of his mind. This phosphorescent scarf floated by:

 •••
Dwayne shoved Bunny’s head from behind. He rolled it like a cantaloupe up and down the keys of the piano bar. Dwayne laughed, and he called his son “... a God damn cock-sucking machine!”
Bunny did not resist him, even though Bunny’s face was being mangled horribly. Dwayne hauled his head from the keys, slammed it down again. There was blood on the keys—and spit, and mucus.
Rabo Karabekian and Beatrice Keedsler and Bonnie MacMahon all grabbed Dwayne now, pulled him away from Bunny. This increased Dwayne’s glee. “Never hit a woman, right?” he said to the Creator of the Universe.
He then socked Beatrice Keedsler on the jaw. He punched Bonnie MacMahon in the belly. He honestly believed that they were unfeeling machines.
“All you robots want to know why my wife ate Drāno?” Dwayne asked his thunderstruck audience. “I’ll tell you why: She was that kind of machine!”
•••
There was a map of Dwayne’s rampage in the paper the next morning. The dotted line of his route started in the cocktail lounge, crossed the asphalt to Francine Pefko’s office in his automobile agency, doubled back to the new Holiday Inn again, then crossed Sugar Creek and the Westbound lane of the Interstate to the median divider, which was grass. Dwayne was subdued on

the median divider by two State Policemen who happened by.
Here is what Dwayne said to the policemen as they cuffed his hands behind his back: “Thank God you’re here!”
•••
Dwayne didn’t kill anybody on his rampage, but he hurt eleven people so badly they had to go to the hospital. And on the map in the newspaper there was a mark indicating each place where a person had been injured seriously. This was the mark, greatly enlarged:
•••
In the newspaper map of Dwayne’s rampage, there were three such crosses inside the cocktail lounge—for Bunny and Beatrice Keedsler and Bonnie MacMahon.
Then Dwayne ran out onto the asphalt between the Inn and his used car lot. He yelled for Niggers out there, telling them to come at once. “I want to talk to you,” he said.
He was out there all alone. Nobody from the cocktail lounge had followed him yet. Mary Alice Miller’s father, Don Miller, was in his car near Dwayne, waiting for Mary Alice to come back with her crown and scepter, but he never saw anything of the show Dwayne put on. His car had seats whose backs could be made to lie flat. They could be made into beds. Don was lying on his back, with his head well below window level, resting, staring at the ceiling. He was trying to learn French by means of listening to lessons recorded on tape.
“Demain nous allons passer la soirée au cinéma,” said the tape, and Don tried to say it, too. “Nous espérons que notre grand-père vivra encore longtemps,” said the tape. And so on.
•••
 
Dwayne went on calling for Niggers to come talk to him. He smiled. He thought that the Creator of the Universe had programmed them all to hide, as a joke.
Dwayne glanced around craftily. Then he called out a signal he had used as a child to indicate that a game of hide-and-seek was over, that it was time for children in hiding to go home.
Here is what he called, and the sun was down when he called it: “Olly- olly-ox-in-freeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee.”
The person who answered this incantation was a person who had never played hide-and-seek in his life. It was Wayne Hoobler, who came out from among the used cars quietly. He clasped his hands behind his back and placed his feet apart. He assumed the position known as parade rest. This position was taught to soldiers and prisoners alike—as a way of demonstrating attentiveness, gullibility, respect, and voluntary defenselessness. He was ready for anything, and wouldn’t mind death.
“There you are,” said Dwayne, and his eyes crinkled in bittersweet amusement. He didn’t know who Wayne was. He welcomed him as a typical black robot. Any other black robot would have served as well. And Dwayne again carried on a wry talk with the Creator of the Universe, using a robot as an unfeeling conversation piece. A lot of people in Midland City put useless objects from Hawaii or Mexico or someplace like that on their coffee tables or their livingroom end tables or on what-not shelves—and such an object was called a conversation piece.
Wayne remained at parade rest while Dwayne told of his year as a County Executive for the Boy Scouts of America, when more black young people were brought into scouting than in any previous year. Dwayne told Wayne about his efforts to save the life of a young black man named Payton Brown, who, at the age of fifteen and a half, became the youngest person ever to die in the electric chair at Shepherdstown. Dwayne rambled on about all the black people he had hired when nobody else would hire black people, about how they never seemed to be able to get to work on time. He mentioned a few, too, who had been energetic and punctual, and he winked at Wayne, and he said this: “They were programmed that way.”
He spoke of his wife and son again, acknowledged that white robots were just like black robots, essentially, in that they were programmed to be

whatever they were, to do whatever they did.
Dwayne was silent for a moment after that.
Mary Alice Miller’s father was meanwhile continuing to learn conversational French while lying down in his automobile, only a few yards away.
And then Dwayne took a swing at Wayne. He meant to slap him hard with his open hand, but Wayne was very good at ducking. He dropped to his knees as the hand swished through the air where his face had been.
Dwayne laughed. “African dodger!” he said. This had reference to a sort of carnival booth which was popular when Dwayne was a boy. A black man would stick his head through a hole in a piece of canvas at the back of a booth, and people would pay money for the privilege of throwing hard baseballs at his head. If they hit his head, they won a prize.
•••
So Dwayne thought that the Creator of the Universe had invited him to play a game of African dodger now. He became cunning, concealed his violent intentions with apparent boredom. Then he kicked at Wayne very suddenly.
Wayne dodged again, and had to dodge yet again almost instantly, as Dwayne advanced with quick combinations of intended kicks, slaps, and punches. And Wayne vaulted onto the bed of a very unusual truck, which had been built on the chassis of a 1962 Cadillac limousine. It had belonged to the Maritimo Brothers Construction Company.
Wayne’s new elevation gave him a view past Dwayne of both barrels of the Interstate, and of a mile or more of Will Fairchild Memorial Airport, which lay beyond. And it is important to understand at this point that Wayne had never seen an airport before, was unprepared for what could happen to an airport when a plane came in at night.
“That’s all right, that’s all right,” Dwayne assured Wayne. He was being a very good sport. He had no intention of climbing up on truck for another swing at Wayne. He was winded, for one thing. For another, he understood that Wayne was a perfect dodging machine. Only a perfect hitting machine could hit him. “You’re too good for me,” said Dwayne.

So Dwayne backed away some, contented himself with preaching up at Wayne. He spoke about human slavery—not only black slaves, but white slaves, too. Dwayne regarded coal miners and workers on assembly lines and so forth as slaves, no matter what color they were. “I used to think that was such a shame,” he said. “I used to think the electric chair was a shame. I used to think war was a shame—and automobile accidents and cancer,” he said, and so on.
He didn’t think they were shames anymore. “Why should I care what happens to machines?” he said.
Wayne Hoobler’s face had been blank so far, but now it began to bloom with uncontrollable awe. His mouth fell open.
The runway lights of Will Fairchild Memorial Airport had just come on. Those lights looked like miles and miles of bewilderingly beautiful jewelry to Wayne. He was seeing a dream come true on the other side of the Interstate.
The inside of Wayne’s head lit up in recognition of that dream, lit up with an electric sign which gave a childish name to the dream—like this:
 
24
LISTEN: Dwayne Hoover hurt so many people seriously that a special
ambulance known as Martha was called, Martha was a full-sized General Motors transcontinental bus, but with the seats removed. There were beds for thirty-six disaster victims in there, plus a kitchen and a bathroom and an operating room. It had enough food and medical supplies aboard to serve as an independent little hospital for a week without help from the outside world.
Its full name was The Martha Simmons Memorial Mobile Disaster Unit, named in honor of the wife of Newbolt Simmons, a County Commissioner of Public Safety. She had died of rabies contracted from a sick bat she found clinging to her floor-to-ceiling livingroom draperies one morning. She had just been reading a biography of Albert Schweitzer, who believed that human beings should treat simpler animals lovingly. The bat nipped her ever so slightly as she wrapped it in Kleenex, a face tissue. She carried it out onto her patio, where she laid it gently on a form of artificial grass known as Astroturf.
She had thirty-six-inch hips, a twenty-nine-inch waist, and a thirty-eight- inch bosom at the time of her death. Her husband had a penis seven and a half inches long and two inches in diameter.
He and Dwayne were drawn together for a while—because his wife and Dwayne’s wife had died such strange deaths within a month of each other.
They bought a gravel pit together, out on Route 23A, but then the Maritimo Brothers Construction Company offered them twice what they had paid for it. So they accepted the offer and divided up the profits, and the friendship petered out somehow. They still exchanged Christmas cards.
Dwayne’s most recent Christmas card to Newbolt Simmons looked like this:
 
 Newbolt Simmons’ most recent Christmas card to Dwayne looked like this:
•••
My psychiatrist is also named Martha. She gathers jumpy people
 
together into little families which meet once a week. It’s a lot of fun. She teaches us how to comfort one another intelligently. She is on vacation now. I like her a lot.
And I think now, as my fiftieth birthday draws near, about the American novelist Thomas Wolfe, who was only thirty-eight years old when he died. He got a lot of help in organizing his novels from Maxwell Perkins, his editor at Charles Scribner’s Sons. I have heard that Perkins told him to keep in mind as he wrote, as a unifying idea, a hero’s search for a father.
It seems to me that really truthful American novels would have the heroes and heroines alike looking for mothers instead. This needn’t be embarrassing. It’s simply true.
A mother is much more useful.
I wouldn’t feel particularly good if I found another father. Neither would Dwayne Hoover. Neither would Kilgore Trout.
•••
And just as motherless Dwayne Hoover was berating motherless Wayne Hoobler in the used car lot, a man who had actually killed his mother was preparing to land in a chartered plane at Will Fairchild Memorial Airport, on the other side of the Interstate. This was Eliot Rosewater, Kilgore Trout’s patron. He killed his mother accidentally in a boating accident, when a youth. She was Women’s Chess Champion of the United States of America, nineteen hundred and thirty-six years after the Son of God was born, supposedly. Rosewater killed her the year after that.
It was his pilot who caused the airport’s runways to become an ex- convict’s idea of fairyland. Rosewater remembered his mother’s jewelry when the lights came on. He looked to the west, and he smiled at the rosy loveliness of the Mildred Barry Memorial Arts Center, a harvest moon on stilts in a bend of Sugar Creek. It reminded him of how his mother had looked when he saw her through the bleary eyes of infancy.
•••
I had made him up, of course—and his pilot, too. I put Colonel Looseleaf Harper, the man who had dropped an atomic bomb on Nagasaki,

Japan, at the controls.
I made Rosewater an alcoholic in another book. I now had him reasonably well sobered up, with the help of Alcoholics Anonymous. I had him use his new-found sobriety, to explore, among other things, the supposed spiritual and physical benefits of sexual orgies with strangers in New York City. He was only confused so far.
I could have killed him, and his pilot, too, but I let them live on. So their plane touched down uneventfully.
•••
The two physicians on the disaster vehicle named Martha were Cyprian Ukwende, of Nigeria, and Khashdrahr Miasma, from the infant nation of Bangladesh. Both were parts of the world which were famous from time to time for having the food run out. Both places were specifically mentioned, in fact, in Now It Can Be Told, by Kilgore Trout. Dwayne Hoover read in that book that robots all over the world were constantly running out of fuel and dropping dead, while waiting around to test the only free-willed creature in the Universe, on the off-chance that he should appear.
•••
At the wheel of the ambulance was Eddie Key, a young black man who was a direct descendant of Francis Scott Key, the white American patriot who wrote the National Anthem. Eddie knew he was descended from Key. He could name more than six hundred of his ancestors, and had at least an anecdote about each. They were Africans, Indians and white men.
He knew, for instance, that his mother’s side of the family had once owned the farm on which Sacred Miracle Cave was discovered, that his ancestors had called it “Bluebird Farm.”
•••
Here was why there were so many young foreign doctors on the hospital staff, incidentally: The country didn’t produce nearly enough doctors for all the sick people it had, but it had an awful lot of money. So it bought doctors from other countries which didn’t have much money.

•••
Eddie Key knew so much about his ancestry because the black part of his family had done what so many African families still do in Africa, which was to have one member of each generation whose duty it was to memorize the history of the family so far. Eddie Key had begun to store in his mind the names and adventures of ancestors on both his mother’s and father’s sides of his family when he was only six years old. As he sat in the front of the disaster vehicle, looking out through the windshield, he had the feeling that he himself was a vehicle, and that his eyes were windshields through which his progenitors could look, if they wished to.
Francis Scott Key was only one of thousands back there. On the off- chance that Key might now be having a look at what had become of the United States of America so far, Eddie focussed his eyes on an American flag which was stuck to the windshield. He said this very quietly: “Still wavin’, man.”
•••
Eddie Key’s familiarity with a teeming past made life much more interesting to him than it was to Dwayne, for instance, or to me, or to Kilgore Trout, or to almost any white person in Midland City that day. We had no sense of anybody else using our eyes—or our hands. We didn’t even know who our great-grandfathers and great-grandmothers were. Eddie Key was afloat in a river of people who were flowing from here to there in time. Dwayne and Trout and I were pebbles at rest.
And Eddie Key, because he knew so much by heart, was able to have deep, nourishing feelings about Dwayne Hoover, for instance, and about Dr. Cyprian Ukwende, too. Dwayne was a man whose family had taken over Bluebird Farm. Ukwende, an Indaro, was a man whose ancestors had kidnapped an ancestor of Key’s on the West Coast of Africa, a man named Ojumwa. The Indaros sold him for a musket to British slave traders, who took him on a sailing ship named the “Skylark” to Charleston, South Carolina, where he was auctioned off as a self-propelled, self-repairing farm machine.
And so on.

•••
Dwayne Hoover was now hustled aboard Martha through big double doors in her rear, just ahead of the engine compartment. Eddie Key was in the driver’s seat, and he watched the action in his rearview mirror. Dwayne was swaddled so tightly in canvas restraining sheets that his reflection looked to Eddie like a bandaged thumb.
Dwayne didn’t notice the restraints. He thought he was on the virgin planet promised by the book by Kilgore Trout. Even when he was laid out horizontally by Cyprian Ukwende and Khashdrahr Miasma, he thought he was standing up. The book had told him that he went swimming in cold water on the virgin planet, that he always yelled something surprising when he climbed out of the icy pool. It was a game. The Creator of the Universe would try to guess what Dwayne would yell each day. And Dwayne would fool him totally.
Here is what Dwayne yelled in the ambulance: “Goodbye, Blue Monday!” Then it seemed to him that another day had passed on the virgin planet, and it was time to yell again. “Not a cough in a carload!” he yelled.
•••
Kilgore Trout was one of the walking wounded. He was able to climb aboard Martha without assistance, and to choose a place to sit where he would be away from real emergencies. He had jumped Dwayne Hoover from behind when Dwayne dragged Francine Pefko out of Dwayne’s showroom and onto the asphalt. Dwayne wanted to give her a beating in public, which his bad chemicals made him think she richly deserved.
Dwayne had already broken her jaw and three ribs in the office. When he trundled her outside, there was a fairsize crowd which had drifted out of the cocktail lounge and the kitchen of the new Holiday Inn. “Best fucking machine in the State,” he told the crowd. “Wind her up, and she’ll fuck you and say she loves you, and she won’t shut up till you give her a Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise.”
And so on. Trout grabbed him from behind.
Trout’s right ring finger somehow slipped into Dwayne’s mouth, and Dwayne bit off the topmost joint. Dwayne let go of Francine after that, and

she slumped to the asphalt. She was unconscious, and the most seriously injured of all. And Dwayne went cantering over to the concrete trough by the Interstate, and he spat Kilgore Trout’s fingertip into Sugar Creek.
•••
Kilgore Trout did not choose to lie down in Martha. He settled into a leather bucket seat behind Eddie Key. Key asked him what was the matter with him, and Trout held up his right hand, partly shrouded in a bloody handkerchief, which looked like this:
“A slip of the lip can sink a ship!” yelled Dwayne. •••
“Remember Pearl Harbor!” yelled Dwayne. Most of what he had done during the past three-quarters of an hour had been hideously unjust. But he had spared Wayne Hoobler, at least. Wayne was back among the used cars again, unscathed. He was picking up a bracelet which I had pitched back there for him to find.
As for myself: I kept a respectful distance between myself and all the violence—even though I had created Dwayne and his violence and the city, and the sky above and the Earth below. Even so, I came out of the riot with a broken watch crystal and what turned out later to be a broken toe. Somebody jumped backwards to get out of Dwayne’s way. He broke my watch crystal, even though I had created him, and he broke my toe.
•••
 
This isn’t the kind of book where people get what is coming to them at the end. Dwayne hurt only one person who deserved to be hurt for being so wicked: That was Don Breedlove. Breedlove was the white gas-conversion unit installer who had raped Patty Keene, the waitress in Dwayne’s Burger Chef out on Crestview Avenue, in the parking lot of George Hickman Bannister Memorial Fieldhouse out at the County Fairgrounds after Peanut University beat Innocent Bystander High School in the Regional Class High School Basketball Playoffs.
•••
Don Breedlove was in the kitchen of the Inn when Dwayne began his rampage. He was repairing a defective gas oven in there.
He stepped outside for some fresh air, and Dwayne came running up to him. Dwayne had just spit Kilgore Trout’s fingertip into Sugar Creek. Don and Dwayne knew each other quite well, since Dwayne had once sold Breedlove a new Pontiac Ventura, which Don said was a lemon. A lemon was an automobile which didn’t run right, and which nobody was able to repair.
Dwayne actually lost money on the transaction, making adjustments and replacing parts in an attempt to mollify Breedlove. But Breedlove was inconsolable, and he finally painted this sign in bright yellow on his trunk lid and on both doors:
 
Here was what was really wrong with the car, incidentally. The child of a neighbor of Breedlove had put maple sugar in the gas tank of the Ventura. Maple sugar was a kind of candy made from the blood of trees.
So Dwayne Hoover now extended his right hand to Breedlove, and Breedlove without thinking anything about it took that hand in his own. They linked up like this:
This was a symbol of friendship between men. The feeling was, too, that a lot of character could be read into the way a man shook hands. Dwayne and Don Breedlove gave each other squeezes which were dry and hard.
So Dwayne held on to Don Breedlove with his right hand, and he smiled as though bygones were bygones. Then he made a cup out of his left hand, and he hit Don on the ear with the open end of the cup. This created terrific air pressure in Don’s ear. He fell down because the pain was so awful. Don would never hear anything with that ear, ever again.
•••
So Don was in the ambulance, too, now—sitting up like Kilgore Trout. Francine was lying down—unconscious but moaning. Beatrice Keedsler was lying down, although she might have sat up. Her jaw was broken. Bunny Hoover was lying down. His face was unrecognizable, even as a face— anybody’s face. He had been given morphine by Cyprian Ukwende.
There were five other victims as well—one white female, two white males, two black males. The three white people had never been in Midland City before. They were on their way together from Erie, Pennsylvania, to the Grand Canyon, which was the deepest crack on the planet. They wanted to look down into the crack, but they never got to do it. Dwayne Hoover assaulted them as they walked from the car toward the lobby of the New Holiday Inn.
 
The two black males were both kitchen employees of the Inn. •••
Cyprian Ukwende now tried to remove Dwayne Hoover’s shoes—but Dwayne’s shoes and laces and socks were impregnated with the plastic material, which he had picked up while wading across Sugar Creek.
Ukwende was not mystified by plasticized, unitized shoes and socks. He saw shoes and socks like that every day at the hospital, on the feet of children who had played too close to Sugar Creek. In fact, he had hung a pair of tinsnips on the wall of the hospital’s emergency room—for cutting off plasticized, unitized shoes and socks.
He turned to his Bengali assistant, young Dr. Khashdrahr Miasma. “Get some shears,” he said.
Miasma was standing with his back to the door of the ladies’ toilet on the emergency vehicle. He had done nothing so far to deal with all the emergencies. Ukwende and police and a team from Civil Defense had done the work so far. Miasma now refused even to find some shears.
Basically, Miasma probably shouldn’t have been in the field of medicine at all, or at least not in any area where there was a chance that he might be criticized. He could not tolerate criticism. This was a characteristic beyond his control. Any hint that anything about him was not absolutely splendid automatically turned him into a useless, sulky child who would only say that it wanted to go home.
That was what he said when Ukwende told him a second time to find shears: “I want to go home.”
Here is what he had been criticized for, just before the alarm came in about Dwayne’s going berserk: He had amputated a black man’s foot, whereas the foot could probably have been saved.
And so on.
•••
I could go on and on with the intimate details about the various lives of people on the super-ambulance, but what good is more information?

I agree with Kilgore Trout about realistic novels and their accumulations of nit-picking details. In Trout’s novel, The Pan-Galactic Memory Bank, the hero is on a space ship two hundred miles long and sixty-two miles in diameter. He gets a realistic novel out of the branch library in his neighborhood. He reads about sixty pages of it, and then he takes it back.
The librarian asks him why he doesn’t like it, and he says to her, “I already know about human beings.”
And so on.
•••
Martha began to move. Kilgore Trout saw a sign he liked a lot. Here is what it said:
And so on.
Dwayne Hoover’s awareness returned to Earth momentarily. He spoke of opening a health club in Midland City, with rowing machines and stationary bicycles and whirlpool baths and sunlamps and a swimming pool and so on. He told Cyprian Ukwende that the thing to do with a health club was to open it and then sell it as soon as possible for a profit. “People get all enthusiastic about getting back in shape or losing some pounds,” said
 
Dwayne. “They sign up for the program, but then they lose interest in about a year, and they stop coming. That’s how people are.”
And so on.
Dwayne wasn’t going to open any health club. He wasn’t going to open anything ever again. The people he had injured so unjustly would sue him so vengefully that he would be rendered destitute. He would become one more withered balloon of an old man on Midland City’s Skid Row, which was the neighborhood of the once fashionable Fairchild Hotel. He would be by no means the only drifter of whom it could be truthfully said, “See him? Can you believe it? He doesn’t have a doodley-squat now, but he used to be fabulously well-to-do.”
And so on.
Kilgore Trout now peeled strips and patches of plastic from his burning shins and feet in the ambulance. He had to use his uninjured left hand.
 
EPILOGUE
THE EMERGENCY ROOM of the hospital was in the basement. After Kilgore Trout had the stump of his ring finger disinfected and trimmed and bandaged, he was told to go upstairs to the finance office. There were certain forms he had to fill out, since he was from outside Midland County, had no health insurance, and was destitute. He had no checkbook. He had no
cash.
He got lost in the basement for a little while, as a lot of people did. He found the double doors to the morgue, as a lot of people did. He automatically mooned about his own mortality, as a lot of people did. He found an x-ray room, which wasn’t in use. It made him wonder automatically if anything bad was growing inside himself. Other people had wondered exactly the same thing when they passed that room.
Trout felt nothing now that millions of other people wouldn’t have felt—automatically.
And Trout found stairs, but they were the wrong stairs. They led him not to the lobby and the finance office and the gift shop and all that, but into a matrix of rooms where persons were recovering or failing to recover from injuries of all kinds. Many of the people there had been flung to the earth by the force of gravity, which never relaxed for a second.
Trout passed a very expensive private room now, and there was a young black man in there, with a white telephone and a color television set and boxes of candy and bouquets of flowers all around. He was Elgin Washington, a pimp who operated out of the old Holiday Inn. He was only twenty-six years old, but he was fabulously well-to-do.
Visiting hours had ended, so all his female sex slaves had departed. But they had left clouds of perfume behind. Trout gagged as he passed the door. It was an automatic reaction to the fundamentally unfriendly cloud. Elgin Washington had just sniffed cocaine into his sinus passages, which amplified tremendously the telepathic messages he sent and received. He felt one hundred times bigger than life, because the messages were so loud and exciting. It was their noise that thrilled him. He didn’t care what they said.
And, in the midst of the uproar, Elgin Washington said something wheedlingly to Trout. “Hey man, hey man, hey man,” he wheedled. He had had his foot amputated earlier in the day by Khashdrahr Miasma, but he had forgotten that. “Hey man, hey man,” he coaxed. He wanted nothing particular from Trout. Some part of his mind was idly exercising his skill at making strangers come to him. He was a fisherman for men’s souls. “Hey man—” he said. He showed a gold tooth. He winked an eye.
Trout came to the foot of the black man’s bed. This wasn’t compassion on his part. He was being machinery again. Trout was, like so many Earthlings, a fully automatic boob when a pathological personality like Elgin Washington told him what to want, what to do. Both men, incidentally, were descendants of the Emperor Charlemagne. Anybody with any European blood in him was a descendant of the Emperor Charlemagne.
Elgin Washington perceived that he had caught yet another human being without really meaning to. It was not in his nature to let one go without making him feel in some way diminished, in some way a fool. Sometimes he actually killed a man in order to diminish him, but he was gentle with Trout. He closed his eyes as though thinking hard, then he earnestly said, “I think I may be dying.”
“I’ll get a nurse!” said Trout. Any human being would have said exactly the same thing.
“No, no,” said Elgin Washington, waving his hands in dreamy protest. “I’m dying slow. It’s gradual.”
“I see,” said Trout.
“You got to do me a favor,” said Washington. He had no idea what favor to ask. It would come to him. Ideas for favors always came.
“What favor?” said Trout uneasily. He stiffened at the mention of an unspecified favor. He was that kind of a machine. Washington knew he would stiffen. Every human being was that kind of a machine.
“I want you to listen to me while I whistle the song of the Nightingale,” he said. He commanded Trout to be silent by giving him the evil eye. “What adds peculiar beauty to the call of the Nightingale, much beloved by poets,” he said, “is the fact that it will only sing by moonlight.” Then he did what almost every black person in Midland City would do: He imitated a Nightingale.
•••
The Midland City Festival of the Arts was postponed because of madness. Fred T. Barry, its chairman, came to the hospital in his limousine, dressed like a Chinaman, to offer his sympathy to Beatrice Keedsler and Kilgore Trout. Trout could not be found anywhere. Beatrice Keedsler had been put to sleep with morphine.
Kilgore Trout assumed that the Arts Festival would still take place that night. He had no money for any form of transportation, so he set out on foot. He began the five mile walk down Fairchild Boulevard—toward a tiny amber dot at the other end. The dot was the Midland City Center for the Arts. He would make it grow by walking toward it. When his walking had made it big enough, it would swallow him up. There would be food inside.
•••
I was waiting to intercept him, about six blocks away. I sat in a Plymouth Duster I had rented from Avis with my Diners’ Club card, I had a paper tube in my mouth. It was stuffed
with leaves. I set it on fire. It was a soigné thing to do.
My penis was three inches long and five inches in diameter. Its diameter was a world’s record as far as I knew. It slumbered now in my Jockey Shorts. And I got out of the car to stretch my legs, which was another soigné thing to do. I was among factories and warehouses. The streetlights were widely-spaced and feeble. Parking lots were vacant, except for night watchmen’s cars which were here and there. There was no traffic on Fairchild Boulevard, which had once been the aorta of the town. The life had all been drained out of it by the Interstate and by the Robert F. Kennedy Inner Belt Expressway, which was built on the old right-of-way of the Monon Railroad. The Monon was defunct.
•••
Defunct.
•••
Nobody slept in that part of town. Nobody lurked there. It was a system of forts at night, with high fences and alarms, and with prowling dogs. They were killing machines.
 
When I got out of my Plymouth Duster, I feared nothing. That was foolish of me. A writer off-guard, since the materials with which he works are so dangerous, can expect agony as quick as a thunderclap.
I was about to be attacked by a Doberman pinscher. He was a leading character in an earlier version of this book. •••
Listen: That Doberman’s name was Kazak. He patrolled the supply yard of the Maritimo Brothers Construction Company at night. Kazak’s trainers, the people who explained to him what sort of a planet he was on and what sort of an animal he was, taught him that the Creator of the Universe wanted him to kill anything he could catch, and to eat it, too.
In an earlier version of this book, I had Benjamin Davis, the black husband of Lottie Davis, Dwayne Hoover’s maid, take care of Kazak. He threw raw meat down into the pit where Kazak lived in the daytime. He dragged Kazak into the pit at sunrise. He screamed at him and threw tennis balls at him at sundown. Then he turned him loose.
Benjamin Davis was first trumpet with the Midland City Symphony Orchestra, but he got no pay for that, so he needed a real job. He wore a thick gown made of war-surplus mattresses and chicken wire, so Kazak could not kill him. Kazak tried and tried. There were chunks of mattress and swatches of chicken wire all over the yard.
And Kazak did his best to kill anybody who came too close to the fence which enclosed his planet. He leaped at people as though the fence weren’t there. The fence bellied out toward the sidewalk everywhere. It looked as though somebody had been shooting cannonballs at it from inside.
I should have noticed the queer shape of the fence when I got out of my automobile, when I did the soigné thing of lighting a cigarette. I should have known that a character as ferocious as Kazak was not easily cut out of a novel.
Kazak was crouching behind a pile of bronze pipe which the Maritimo Brothers had bought cheap from a hijacker earlier that day. Kazak meant to kill and eat me. •••
I turned my back to the fence, took a deep puff of my cigarette. Pall Malls would kill me by and by. And I mooned philosophically at the murky battlements of the old Keedsler Mansion, on the other side of Fairchild Boulevard.
Beatrice Keedsler had been raised in there. The most famous murders in the city’s history had been committed there. Will Fairchild, the war hero, and the maternal uncle of Beatrice Keedsler, appeared one summer night in 1926 with a Springfield rifle. He shot and killed five relatives, three servants, two policemen, and all the animals in the Keedslers’ private zoo. Then he shot himself through his heart.
When an autopsy was performed on him, a tumor the size of a piece of birdshot was found in his brain. This was what caused the murders. •••
After the Keedslers lost the mansion at the start of the Great Depression, Fred T. Barry and his parents moved in. The old place was filled with the sounds of British birds. It was silent property of the city now, and there was talk of making it into a museum where children could learn the history of Midland City—as told by arrowheads and stuffed animals and white men’s early artifacts.
display.
Fred T. Barry had offered to donate half a million dollars to the proposed museum, on one condition: that the first Robo-Magic and the early posters which advertised it be put on And he wanted the exhibit to show, too, how machines evolved just as animals did, but with much greater speed.
•••
I gazed at the Keedsler mansion, never dreaming that a volcanic dog was about to erupt behind me. Kilgore Trout came nearer. I was almost indifferent to his approach, although we had momentous things to say to one another about my having created him.
I thought instead of my paternal grandfather, who had been the first licensed architect in Indiana. He had designed some dream houses for Hoosier millionaires. They were mortuaries and guitar schools and cellar holes and parking lots now. I thought of my mother, who drove me around Indianapolis one time during the Great Depression, to impress me with how rich and powerful my maternal grandfather had been. She showed me where his brewery had been, where some of his dream houses had been. Every one of the monuments was a cellar hole.
Kilgore Trout was only half a block from his Creator now, and slowing down. I worried him.
I turned toward him, so that my sinus cavities, where all telepathic messages were sent and received, were lined up symmetrically with his. I told him this over and over telepathically: “I have good news for you.”
Kazak sprung.
•••
I saw Kazak out of the corner of my right eye. His eyes were pinwheels. His teeth were white daggers. His slobber was cyanide. His blood was nitroglycerine.
He was floating toward me like a zeppelin, hanging lazily in air.
My eyes told my mind about him.
My mind sent a message to my hypothalamus, told it to release the hormone CRF into the short vessels connecting my hypothalamus and my pituitary gland.
The CRF inspired my pituitary gland to dump the hormone ACTH into my bloodstream. My pituitary had been making and storing ACTH for just such an occasion. And nearer and nearer the zeppelin came.
And some of the ACTH in my bloodstream reached the outer shell of my adrenal gland, which had been making and storing glucocorticoids for emergencies. My adrenal gland added the glucocorticoids to my bloodstream. They went all over my body, changing glycogen into glucose. Glucose was muscle food. It would help me fight like a wildcat or run like a deer.
And nearer and nearer the zeppelin came.
My adrenal gland gave me a shot of adrenaline, too. I turned purple as my blood pressure skyrocketed. The adrenaline made my heart go like a burglar alarm. It also stood my hair on end. It also caused coagulants to pour into my bloodstream, so, in case I was wounded, my vital juices wouldn’t drain away.
Everything my body had done so far fell within normal operating procedures for a human machine. But my body took one defensive measure which I am told was without precedent in medical history. It may have happened because some wire short-circuited or some gasket blew. At any rate, I also retracted my testicles into my abdominal cavity, pulled them into my fuselage like the landing gear of an airplane. And now they tell me that only surgery will bring them down again.
Be that as it may, Kilgore Trout watched me from half a block away, not knowing who I was, not knowing about Kazak and what my body had done about Kazak so far. Trout had had a full day already, but it wasn’t over yet. Now he saw his Creator leap completely over an automobile.
•••
I landed on my hands and knees in the middle of Fairchild Boulevard.
Kazak was flung back by the fence. Gravity took charge of him as it had taken charge of me. Gravity slammed him down on concrete. Kazak was knocked silly.

Kilgore Trout turned away. He hastened anxiously back toward the hospital. I called out to him, but that only made him walk faster.
So I jumped into my car and chased him. I was still high as a kite on adrenaline and coagulants and all that. I did not know yet that I had retracted my testicles in all the excitement. I felt only vague discomfort down there.
Trout was cantering when I came alongside. I clocked him at eleven miles an hour, which was excellent for a man his age. He, too, was now full of adrenaline and coagulants and glucocorticoids.
My windows were rolled down, and I called this to him: “Whoa! Whoa! Mr. Trout! Whoa! Mr. Trout!”
It slowed him down to be called by name.
“Whoa! I’m a friend!” I said. He shuffled to a stop, leaned in panting exhaustion against a fence surrounding an appliance warehouse belonging to the General Electric Company. The company’s monogram and motto hung in the night sky behind Kilgore Trout, whose eyes were wild. The motto was this:
PROGRESS IS OUR MOST IMPORTANT PRODUCT
•••
“Mr. Trout,” I said from the unlighted interior of the car, “you have nothing to fear. I bring you tidings of great joy.”
He was slow to get his breath back, so he wasn’t much of a conversationalist at first. “Are—are you—from the—the Arts Festival?” he said. His eyes rolled and rolled. “I am from the Everything Festival,” I replied.
“The what?” he said.
I thought it would be a good idea to let him have a good look at me, and so attempted to flick on the dome light. I turned on the windshield washers instead. I turned them off again. My view of the lights of the County Hospital was garbled by beads of water. I pulled at another switch, and it came away in my hand. It was a cigarette lighter. So I had no choice but to continue to speak from darkness.
“Mr. Trout,” I said, “I am a novelist, and I created you for use in my books.”
“Pardon me?” he said.
“I’m your Creator,” I said. “You’re in the middle of a book right now—close to the end of it, actually.”
“Um,” he said.
“Are there any questions you’d like to ask?”
“Pardon me?” he said.
“Feel free to ask anything you want—about the past, about the future,” I said. “There’s a Nobel Prize in your future:”
“A what?” he said.
“A Nobel Prize in medicine.”
“Huh,” he said. It was a noncommittal sound.
“I’ve also arranged for you to have a reputable publisher from now on. No more beaver books for you.”
“Um,” he said.
“If I were in your spot, I would certainly have lots of questions,” I said.
“Do you have a gun?” he said.
I laughed there in the dark, tried to turn on the light again, activated the windshield washer again. “I don’t need a gun to control you, Mr. Trout. All I have to do is write down something about you, and that’s it.”
•••
“Are you crazy?” he said.
“No,” I said. And I shattered his power to doubt me. I transported him to the Taj Mahal and then to Venice and then to Dar es Salaam and then to the surface of the Sun, where the
flames could not consume him—and then back to Midland City again.
The poor old man crashed to his knees. He reminded me of the way my mother and Bunny Hoover’s mother used to act whenever somebody tried to take their photographs.
As he cowered there, I transported him to the Bermuda of his childhood, had him contemplate the infertile egg of a Bermuda Em. I took him from there to the Indianapolis of my childhood. I put him in a circus crowd there. I had him see a man with locomotor ataxia and a woman with a goiter as big as a zucchini.
•••
I got out of my rented car. I did it noisily, so his ears would tell him a lot about his Creator, even if he was unwilling to use his eyes. I slammed the car door firmly. As I approached
him from the driver’s side of the car, I swiveled my feet some, so that my footsteps were not only deliberate but gritty, too.
I stopped with the tips of my shoes on the rim of the narrow field of his downcast eyes. “Mr. Trout, I love you,” I said gently. “I have broken your mind to pieces. I want to make it
whole. I want you to feel a wholeness and inner harmony such as I have never allowed you to feel before. I want you to raise your eyes, to look at what I have in my hand.”
I had nothing in my hand, but such was my power over Trout that he would see in it whatever I wished him to see. I might have shown him a Helen of Troy, for instance, only six
inches tall.
“Mr. Trout—Kilgore—” I said, “I hold in my hand a symbol of wholeness and harmony and nourishment. It is Oriental in its simplicity, but we are Americans, Kilgore, and not Chinamen. We Americans require symbols which are richly colored and three-dimensional and juicy. Most of all, we hunger for symbols which have not been poisoned by great sins our nation has committed, such as slavery and genocide and criminal neglect, or by tinhorn commercial greed and cunning.
“Look up, Mr. Trout,” I said, and I waited patiently. “Kilgore—?”
The old man looked up, and he had my father’s wasted face when my father was a widower—when my father was an old old man. He saw that I held an apple in my hand.
•••
“I am approaching my fiftieth birthday, Mr. Trout,” I said. “I am cleansing and renewing myself for the very different sorts of years to come. Under similar spiritual conditions, Count Tolstoi freed his serfs. Thomas Jefferson freed his slaves. I am going to set at liberty all the literary characters who have served me so loyally during my writing career.
“You are the only one I am telling. For the others, tonight will be a night like any other night. Arise, Mr. Trout, you are free, you are free.”

He arose shamblingly.
I might have shaken his hand, but his right hand was injured, so our hands remained dangling at our sides. “Bon voyage” I said. I disappeared.
•••
I somersaulted lazily and pleasantly through the void, which is my hiding place when I dematerialize. Trout’s cries to me faded as the distance between us increased. His voice was my father’s voice. I heard my father—and I saw my mother in the void. My mother stayed far, far away, because she had left me a legacy of suicide. A small hand mirror floated by. It was a leak with a mother-of-pearl handle and frame. I captured it easily, held it up to my own right eye, which looked like this:
Here was what Kilgore Trout cried out to me in my father’s voice: “Make me young, make me young, make me young!”

YES—KILGORE TROUT is back again. He could not make it on the outside. That is no disgrace. A lot of good people can’t make it on the outside.
•••
I received a letter this morning (November 16, 1978) from a young stranger named John Figler, of Crown Point, Indiana. Crown Point is notorious for a jailbreak there by the bank robber John Dillinger, during the depths of the Great Depression. Dillinger escaped by threatening his jailor with a pistol made of soap and shoe polish. His jailor was a woman. God rest his soul, and her soul, too. Dillinger was the Robin Hood of my early youth. He is buried near my parents—and near my sister Alice, who admired him even more than I did—in Crown Hill Cemetery in Indianapolis. Also in there, on the top of Crown Hill, the highest point in the city, is James Whitcomb Riley, “The Hoosier Poet.” When my mother was little, she knew Riley well.
Dillinger was summarily executed by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. He was shot down in a public place, although he was not trying to escape or resist arrest. So there is nothing recent in my lack of respect for the F.B.I.
John Figler is a law-abiding high-school student. He says in his letter that he has read almost everything of mine and is now prepared to state the single idea that lies at the core of my life’s work so far. The words are his: “Love may fail, but courtesy will prevail.”
This seems true to me—and complete. So I am now in the abashed condition, five days after my fifty-sixth birthday, of realizing that I needn’t have bothered to write several books. A seven-word telegram would have done the job.
Seriously.
But young Figler’s insight reached me too late. I had nearly finished another book—this one.
•••
In it is a minor character, “Kenneth Whistler,” inspired by an Indianapolis man of my father’s generation. The inspirer’s name was Powers Hapgood (1900—1949). He is sometimes mentioned in histories of American labor for his deeds of derring-do in strikes and at the protests about the executions of Sacco and Vanzetti, and so on.
I met him only once. I had lunch with him and Father and my Uncle Alex, my father’s younger brother, in Stegemeier’s Restaurant in downtown Indianapolis after I came home from the European part of World War Two. That was in July of 1945. The first atomic bomb had not yet been dropped on Japan. That would happen in about a month. Imagine that.
I was twenty-two and still in uniform—a private first class who had flunked out of Cornell University as a student of chemistry before going to war. My prospects did not look good. There was no family business to go into. My father’s architecture firm was defunct. He was broke. I had just gotten engaged to be married anyway, thinking, “Who but a wife would sleep with me?”
My mother, as I have said ad nauseam in other books, had declined to go on living, since she could no longer be what she had been at the time of her marriage—one of the richest women in town.
•••
It was Uncle Alex who had arranged the lunch. He and Powers Hapgood had been at Harvard together. Harvard is all through this book, although I myself never went there. I have since taught there, briefly and without distinction— while my own home was going to pieces.
I confided that to one of my students—that my home was going to pieces.
To which he made this reply: “It shows.”
Uncle Alex was so conservative politically that I do not think he would have eaten lunch with Hapgood gladly if Hapgood had not been a fellow Harvard man. Hapgood was then a labor union officer, a vice-president of the local CIO. His wife Mary had been the Socialist Party’s candidate for vice-president of the United States again and again.
In fact, the first time I voted in a national election I voted for Norman Thomas and Mary Hapgood, not even knowing that she was an Indianapolis person. Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S Truman won. I imagined that I was a socialist. I believed that socialism would be good for the common man. As a private first class in the infantry, I was surely a common man.
•••
The meeting with Hapgood came about because I had told Uncle Alex that I might try to get a job with a labor union after the Army let me go. Unions were admirable instruments for extorting something like economic justice from employers then.
Uncle Alex must have thought something like this: “God help us. Against stupidity even the gods contend in vain. Well—at least there is a Harvard man with whom he can discuss this ridiculous dream.”
(It was Schiller who first said that about stupidity and the gods. This was Nietzsche’s reply: “Against boredom even the gods contend in vain.”)
So Uncle Alex and I sat down at a front table in Stegemeier’s and ordered beers and waited for Father and Hapgood to arrive. They would be coming separately. If they had come together, they would have had nothing to say to each other on the way. Father by then had lost all interest in politics and history and economics and such things. He had taken to saying that people talked too much. Sensations meant more to him than ideas—especially the feel of natural materials at his fingertips. When he was dying about twenty years later, he would say that he wished he had been a potter, making mud pies all day long.
To me that was sad—because he was so well-educated. It seemed to me that he was throwing his knowledge and intelligence away, just as a retreating soldier might throw away his rifle and pack.
Other people found it beautiful. He was a much-beloved man in the city, with wonderfully talented hands. He was invariably courteous and innocent. To him all craftsmen were saints, no matter how mean or stupid they might really be.
Uncle Alex, by the way, could do nothing with his hands. Neither could my mother. She could not even cook a breakfast or sew on a button.
Powers Hapgood could mine coal. That’s what he did after he graduated from Harvard, when his classmates were taking jobs in family businesses and brokerages and banks and so on: He mined coal. He believed that a true friend of the working people should be a worker himself—and a good one, too.
So I have to say that my father, when I got to know him, when I myself was something like an adult, was a good man in full retreat from life. My mother had already surrendered and vanished from our table of organization. So an air of defeat has always been a companion of mine. So I have always been enchanted by brave veterans like Powers Hapgood, and some others, who were still eager for information of what was really going on, who were still full of ideas of how victory might yet be snatched from the jaws of defeat. “If I am going to go on living,” I have thought, “I had better follow them.”
•••
I tried to write a story about a reunion between my father and myself in heaven one time. An early draft of this book in fact began that way. I hoped in the story to become a really good friend of his. But the story turned out perversely, as stories about real people we have known often do. It seemed that in heaven people could be any age they liked, just so long as they had experienced that age on Earth. Thus, John D. Rockefeller, for example, the founder of Standard Oil, could be any age up to ninety-eight. King Tut could be any age up to nineteen, and so on. As author of the story, I was dismayed that my father in heaven chose to be only nine years old.
I myself had chosen to be forty-four—respectable, but still quite sexy, too. My dismay with Father turned to embarrassment and anger. He was lemur-like as a nine-year-old, all eyes and hands. He had an endless supply of pencils and pads, and was forever tagging after me, drawing pictures of simply everything and insisting that I admire them when they were done. New acquaintances would sometimes ask me who that strange little boy was, and I would have to reply truthfully, since it was impossible to lie in heaven, “It’s my father.”

Bullies liked to torment him, since he was not like other children. He did not enjoy children’s talk and children’s games. Bullies would chase him and catch him and take off his pants and underpants and throw them down the mouth of hell. The mouth of hell looked like a sort of wishing well, but without a bucket and windlass. You could lean over its rim and hear ever so faintly the screams of Hitler and Nero and Salome and Judas and people like that far, far below. I could imagine Hitler, already experiencing maximum agony, periodically finding his head draped with my father’s underpants.
Whenever Father had his pants stolen, he would come running to me, purple with rage. As like as not, I had just made some new friends and was impressing them with my urbanity—and there my father would be, bawling bloody murder and with his little pecker waving in the breeze.
I complained to my mother about him, but she said she knew nothing about him, or about me, either, since she was only sixteen. So I was stuck with him, and all I could do was yell at him from time to time, “For the love of God, Father, won’t you please grow up!”
And so on. It insisted on being a very unfriendly story, so I quit writing it. •••
And now, in July of 1945, Father came into Stegemeier’s Restaurant, still very much alive. He was about the age that I am now, a widower with no interest in ever being married again and with no evident wish for a lover of any kind. He had a mustache like the one I have today. I was clean-shaven then.
A terrible ordeal was ending—a planetary economic collapse followed by a planetary war. Fighting men were starting to come home everywhere. You might think that Father would comment on that, however fleetingly, and on the new era that was being born. He did not.
He told instead, and perfectly charmingly, about an adventure he had had that morning. While driving into the city, he had seen an old house being torn down. He had stopped and taken a closer look at its skeleton. He noticed that the sill under the front door was an unusual wood, which he finally decided was poplar. I gathered that it was about eight inches square and four feet long. He admired it so much that the wreckers gave it to him. He borrowed a hammer from one of them and pulled out all the nails he could see.
Then he took it to a sawmill—to have it ripped into boards. He would decide later what to do with the boards. Mostly, he wanted to see the grain in this unusual wood. He had to promise the mill that there were no nails left in the timber. This he did. But there was still a nail in there. It had lost its head, and so was invisible. There was an earsplitting shriek from the circular saw when it hit the nail. Smoke came from the belt that was trying to spin the stalled saw.
Now Father had to pay for a new sawblade and a new belt, too, and had been told never to come there with used lumber again. He was delighted somehow. The story was a sort of fairy tale, with a moral in it for everyone.
Uncle Alex and I had no very vivid response to the story. Like all of Father’s stories, it was as neatly packaged and self-contained as an egg.
•••
So we ordered more beers. Uncle Alex would later become a cofounder of the Indianapolis chapter of Alcoholics Anonymous, although his wife would say often and pointedly that he himself had never been an alcoholic. He began to talk now about The Columbia Conserve Company, a cannery that Powers Hapgood’s father, William, also a Harvard man, had founded in Indianapolis in 1903. It was a famous experiment in industrial democracy, but I had never heard of it before. There was a lot that I had never heard of before.
The Columbia Conserve Company made tomato soup and chili and catsup, and some other things. It was massively dependent on tomatoes. The company did not make a profit until 1916. As soon as it made one, though, Powers Hapgood’s father began to give his employees some of the benefits he thought workers everywhere in the world were naturally entitled to. The other principal stockholders were his two brothers, also Harvard men—and they agreed with him.
So he set up a council of seven workers, who were to recommend to the board of directors what the wages and working conditions should be. The board, without any prodding from anybody, had already declared that there would no longer be any seasonal layoffs, even in such a seasonal industry, and that there would be vacations with pay, and that medical care for workers and their dependents would be free, and that there would be sick pay and a retirement plan, and that the ultimate goal of the company was that, through a stock-bonus plan, it become the

property of the workers.
“It went bust,” said Uncle Alex, with a certain grim, Darwinian satisfaction. My father said nothing. He may not have been listening.
•••
I now have at hand a copy of The Hapgoods, Three Earnest Brothers, by Michael D. Marcaccio (The University Press of Virginia, Charlottesville, 1977). The three brothers in the subtitle were William, the founder of Columbia Conserve, and Norman and Hutchins, also Harvard men, who were both socialistically inclined journalists and editors and book writers in and around New York. According to Mr. Marcaccio, Columbia Conserve was a quite tidy success until 1931, when the Great Depression hit it murderously. Many workers were let go, and those who were kept on had their pay cut by 50 percent. A great deal of money was owed to Continental Can, which insisted that the company behave more conventionally toward its employees—even if they were stockholders, which most of them were. The experiment was over. There wasn’t any money to pay for it anymore. Those who had received stock through profit sharing now owned bits of a company that was nearly dead.
It did not go completely bust for a while. In fact it still existed when Uncle Alex and Father arid Powers Hapgood and I had lunch. But it was just another cannery, paying not one penny more than any other cannery paid. What was left of it was finally sold off to a stronger company in 1953.
•••
Now Powers Hapgood came into the restaurant, an ordinary-looking Middle Western Anglo-Saxon in a cheap business suit. He wore a union badge in his lapel. He was cheerful. He knew my father slightly. He knew Uncle Alex quite well. He apologized for being late. He had been in court that morning, testifying about violence on a picket line some months before. He personally had had nothing to do with the violence. His days of derring-do were behind him. Never again would he fight anybody, or be clubbed to his knees, or be locked up in jail.
He was a talker, with far more wonderful stories than Father or Uncle Alex had ever told. He was thrown into a lunatic asylum after he led the pickets at the execution of Sacco and Vanzetti. He was in fights with organizers for John L. Lewis’s United Mine Workers, which he considered too right wing. In 1936 he was a CIO organizer at a strike against RCA in Camden, New Jersey. He was put in jail. When several thousand strikers surrounded the jail, as a sort of reverse lynch mob, the sheriff thought it best to turn him loose again. And on and on. I have put my recollections of some of the stories he told into the mouth of, as I say, a fictitious character in this book.
It turned out that he had been telling stories all morning in court, too. The judge was fascinated, and almost everybody else in court was, too—presumably by such unselfish high adventures. The judge had encouraged Hapgood, I gathered, to go on and on. Labor history was pornography of a sort in those days, and even more so in these days. In public schools and in the homes of nice people it was and remains pretty much taboo to tell tales of labor’s sufferings and derring-do.
I remember the name of the judge. It was Claycomb. I am able to remember it so easily because I had been a high- school classmate of the judge’s son, “Moon.”
Moon Claycomb’s father, according to Powers Hapgood, asked him this final question just before lunch: “Mr. Hapgood,” he said, “why would a man from such a distinguished family and with such a fine education choose to live as you do?”
“Why?” said Hapgood, according to Hapgood. “Because of the Sermon on the Mount, sir.” And Moon Claycomb’s father said this: “Court is adjourned until two P.M.”
•••
What, exactly, was the Sermon on the Mount?
It was the prediction by Jesus Christ that the poor in spirit would receive the Kingdom of Heaven; that all who mourned would be comforted; that the meek would inherit the Earth; that those who hungered for righteousness would find it; that the merciful would be treated mercifully; that the pure in heart would see God; that the peacemakers would be called the sons of God; that those who were persecuted for righteousness’ sake would also receive the Kingdom of Heaven; and on and on.

•••
The character in this book inspired by Powers Hapgood is unmarried and has problems with alcohol. Powers Hapgood was married and, so far as I know, had no serious problems with alcohol.
•••
There is another minor character, whom I call “Roy M. Cohn.” He is modeled after the famous anticommunist and lawyer and businessman named, straightforwardly enough, one would have to say, Roy M. Cohn. I include him with his kind permission, given yesterday (January 2, 1979) over the telephone. I promised to do him no harm and to present him as an appallingly effective attorney for either the prosecution or the defense of anyone.
•••
My dear father was silent for a good part of our ride home from that lunch with Powers Hapgood. We were in his Plymouth sedan. He was driving. Some fifteen years later he would be arrested for driving through a red light. It would be discovered that he had not had a driver’s license for twenty years—which means that he was not licensed even on the day we had lunch with Powers Hapgood.
His house was out in the country some. When we got to the edge of the city, he said that if we were lucky we would see a funny dog. It was a German shepherd, he said, who could hardly stand up because he had been hit so often by automobiles. The dog still came tottering out to chase them, his eyes filled with bravery and rage.
But the dog did not appear that day. He really did exist. I would see him another day, when I was driving alone. He was crouched down on the shoulder of the road, ready to sink his teeth into my right front tire. But his charge was a pitiful thing to see. His rear end hardly worked at all anymore. He might as well have been dragging a steamer trunk with the power in his front feet alone.
That was the day on which the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima. •••
But back to the day on which I lunched with Powers Hapgood:
When Father put the car into his garage, he finally said something about the lunch. He was puzzled by the passionate manner in which Hapgood had discussed the Sacco and Vanzetti case, surely one of the most spectacular, most acrimoniously argued miscarriages of justice in American history.
“You know,” said Father, “I had no idea that there was any question about their guilt.” That is how purely an artist my father was.
•••
There is mentioned in this book a violent confrontation between strikers and police and soldiers called the Cuyahoga Massacre. It is an invention, a mosaic composed of bits taken from tales of many such riots in not such olden times.
It is a legend in the mind of the leading character in this book, Walter F. Starbuck, whose life was accidentally shaped by the Massacre, even though it took place on Christmas morning in eighteen hundred ninety-four, long before Starbuck was born.
It goes like this:
In October of 1894 Daniel McCone, the founder and owner of the Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron Company, then the largest single employer in Cleveland, Ohio, informed his factory workers through their foremen that they were to accept a 10 percent cut in pay. There was no union. McCone was a hard-bitten and brilliant little mechanical engineer, self-educated, born of working-class parents in Edinburgh, Scotland.
Half his work force, about a thousand men, under the leadership of an ordinary foundryman with a gift for oratory, Colin Jarvis, walked out, forcing the plant to shut down. They had found it almost impossible to feed and shelter and clothe their families even without the cut in wages. All of them were white. Most of them were native- born.
Nature sympathized that day. The sky and Lake Erie were identical in color, the same dead pewter-gray.

The little homes toward which the strikers trudged were near the factory. Many of them were owned, and their neighborhood grocery stores, too, by Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron.
•••
Among the trudgers, as bitter and dejected as anyone, seemingly, were spies and agents provocateurs secretly employed and paid very well by the Pinkerton Detective Agency. That agency still exists and prospers, and is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of The RAMJAC Corporation.
Daniel McCone had two sons, Alexander Hamilton McCone, then twenty-two, and John, twenty-five. Alexander had graduated without distinction from Harvard in the previous May. He was soft, he was shy, he was a stammerer. John, the elder son and the company’s heir apparent, had flunked out of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in his freshman year, and had been his father’s most trusted aide ever since.
The workers to a man, strikers and nonstrikers alike, hated the father and his son John, but acknowledged that they knew more about shaping iron and steel than anybody else in the world. As for young Alexander: They found him girllike and stupid and too cowardly ever to come near the furnaces and forges and drop hammers, where the most dangerous work was done. Workers would sometimes wave their handkerchiefs at him, as a salute to his futility as a man.
When Walter F. Starbuck, in whose mind this legend is, asked Alexander years later why he had ever gone to work in such an unhospitable place after Harvard, especially since Alexander’s father had not insisted on it, he stammered out a reply, which when unscrambled, was this: “I then believed that a rich man should have some understanding of the place from which his riches came. That was very juvenile of me. Great wealth should be accepted unquestioningly, or not at all.”
About Alexander’s stammers before the Cuyahoga Massacre: They were little more than grace notes expressing excessive modesty. Never had one left him mute for more than three seconds, with all his thoughts held prisoner inside.
And he would not have done much talking in the presence of his dynamic father and brother in any event. But his silence came to conceal a secret that was increasingly pleasant with each passing day: He was coming to understand the business as well as they did. Before they announced a decision, he almost always knew what it would be and should be—and why. Nobody else knew it yet, but he, too, by God, was an industrialist and an engineer.
•••
When the strike came in October, he was able to guess many of the things that should be done, even though he had never been through a strike before. Harvard was a million miles away. Nothing he had ever learned there would get the factory going again. But the Pinkerton Agency would, and the police would—and perhaps the National Guard. Before his father and brother said so, Alexander knew that there were plenty of men in other parts of the country who were desperate enough to take a job at almost any wage. When his father and brother did say this, he learned something else about business: There were companies, often pretending to be labor unions, whose sole business was to recruit such men.
By the end of November the chimneys of the factory were belching smoke again. The strikers had no money left for rent or food or fuel. Every large employer within three hundred miles had been sent their names, so he would know what troublemakers they had been. Their nominal leader, Colin Jarvis, was in jail, awaiting trial on a trumped- up murder charge.
•••
On December fifteenth the wife of Colin Jarvis, called Ma, led a delegation of twenty other strikers’ wives to the main gate of the factory, asking to see Daniel McCone. He sent Alexander down to them with a scribbled note, which Alexander found himself able to read out loud to them without any speech impediment at all. It said that Daniel McCone was too busy to give time to strangers who had nothing to do with affairs of the Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron Company anymore. It suggested that they had mistaken the company for a charitable organization. It said that their churches or police precinct stations would be able to give them a list of organizations to which they might more appropriately plead for help—if they really needed help and felt that they deserved it.
Ma Jarvis told Alexander that her own message was even simpler: The strikers would return to work on any terms. Most of them were now being evicted from their homes and had no place to go.

“I am sorry,” said Alexander. “I can only read my father’s note again, if you would like me to.”
Alexander McCone would say many years later that the confrontation did not bother him a bit at the time. He was in fact elated, he said, to find himself such a reliable “... muh-muh-muh-machine.”
•••
A police captain now stepped forward. He warned the women that they were in violation of the law, assembling in such great numbers as to impede traffic and constitute a threat to public safety. He ordered them to disperse at once, in the name of the law.
This they did. They retreated across the vast plaza before the main gate. The façade of the factory had been designed to remind cultivated persons of the Piazza San Marco in Venice, Italy. The factory’s clock-tower was a half-scale replica of San Marco’s famous campanile.
It was from the belfry of that tower that Alexander and his father and his brother would watch the Cuyahoga Massacre on Christmas morning. Each would have his own binoculars. Each would have his own little revolver, too.
There were no bells in the belfry. Neither were there cafés and shops around the plaza below. The architect had justified the plaza on strictly utilitarian grounds. It provided any amount of room for wagons and buggies and horse- drawn streetcars as they came and went. The architect had also been matter-of-fact about the virtues of the factory as a fort. Any mob meaning to storm the front gate would first have to cross all that open ground.
A single newspaper reporter, from The Cleveland Plain Dealer, now a RAMJAC publication, retreated across the plaza with the women. He asked Ma Jarvis what she planned to do next.
There was nothing much that she could do next, of course. The strikers weren’t even strikers anymore, but simply unemployed persons being turned out of their homes.
She gave a brave answer anyway: “We will be back,” she said. What else could she say?
He asked her when they would be back.
Her answer was probably no more than the poetry of hopelessness in Christendom, with winter setting in. “On Christmas morning,” she said.
•••
This was printed in the paper, whose editors felt that a threatening promise had been made. And the fame of this coming Christmas in Cleveland spread far and wide. Sympathizers with the strikers—preachers, writers, union organizers, populist politicians, and on and on—began to filter into the city as though expecting a miracle of some kind. They were frankly enemies of the economic order as it was constructed then.
A company of National Guard infantrymen was mobilized by Edwin Kincaid, the governor of Ohio, to protect the factory. They were farm boys from the southern part of the state, selected because they had no friends or relatives among the strikers, no reason to see them as anything but unreasonable disturbers of the peace. They represented an American ideal: healthy, cheerful citizen soldiers, who went about their ordinary business until their country suddenly needed an awesome display of weapons and discipline. They were supposed to appear as though from nowhere, to the consternation of America’s enemies. When the trouble was over, they would vanish again.
The regular army of the country, which had fought the Indians until the Indians could fight no more, was down to about thirty thousand men. As for the Utopian militias throughout the country: They almost all consisted of farm boys, since the health of the factory workers was so bad and their hours so long. It was about to be discovered, incidentally, in the Spanish-American War, that militiamen were worse than useless on battlefields, they were so poorly trained.
•••
And that was surely the impression young Alexander Hamilton McCone had of the militiamen who arrived at the factory on Christmas Eve: that these were not soldiers. They were brought on a special train to a siding inside the factory’s high iron fence. They straggled out of the car and onto a loading platform as though they were ordinary passengers on various errands. Their uniforms were only partly buttoned, and often mis-buttoned, at that. Several had lost their hats. Almost all carried laughably unmilitary suitcases and parcels.
Their officers? Their captain was the postmaster of Greenfield, Ohio. Their two. lieutenants were twin sons of the president of the Greenfield Bank and Trust Company. The postmaster and the banker had both done local favors for

the governor. The commissions were their rewards. And the officers, in turn, had rewarded those who had pleased them in some way by making them sergeants or corporals. And the privates, in turn, voters or sons of voters, had it within their power, if they felt like using it, to ruin the lives of their superiors with contempt and ridicule, which could go on for generations.
There on the loading platform at the Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron Company old Daniel McCone finally had to ask one of the many soldiers milling about and eating at the same time, “Who is in charge here?”
As luck would have it, he had put the question to the captain, who told him this: “Well—as much as anybody, I guess I am.”
To their credit, and although armed with bayonets and live ammunition, the militiamen would not harm a single soul on the following day.
•••
They were quartered in an idled machine shop. They slept in the aisles. Each one had brought his own food from home. They had hams and roasted chickens and cakes and pies. They ate whatever they pleased and whenever they pleased, and turned the machine shop into a picnic ground. They left the place looking like a village dump. They did not know any better.
Yes, and old Daniel McCone and his two sons spent the night in the factory, too—on camp cots in their offices at the foot of the bell tower, and with loaded revolvers under their pillows. When would they have their Christmas dinner? At three o’clock on the following afternoon. The trouble would surely be over by then. Young Alexander was to make use of his fine education, his father had told him, by composing and delivering an appropriate prayer of thanksgiving before they ate that meal.
Regular company guards, augmented by Pinkerton agents and city policemen, meanwhile took turns patrolling the company fence all night. The company guards, ordinarily armed only with pistols, had rifles, and shotguns, too, borrowed from friends or brought from home.
Four Pinkerton men were allowed to sleep all through the night. They were master craftsmen of a sort. They were sharpshooters.
It was not bugles that awakened the McCones the next morning. It was the sound of hammering and sawing, which gabbled around the plaza. Carpenters were building a high scaffold by the main gate, just inside the fence. The chief of police of Cleveland was to stand atop it, in plain view of everyone. At an opportune moment he was to read the Ohio Riot Act to the crowd. This public reading was required by law. The act said that any unlawful assembly of twelve persons or more had to disperse within an hour of having the act read to it. If it did not disperse, its members would be guilty of a felony punishable by imprisonment for from ten years to life.
Nature sympathized again—for a gentle snow began to fall. •••
Yes, and an enclosed carriage drawn by two white horses clattered into the plaza at full speed and stopped by the gate. Into the dawn’s early light stepped Colonel George Redfield, the governor’s son-in-law, who had been commissioned by the governor, and who had come all the way from Sandusky to take command of the militiamen. He owned a lumber mill and was in the feed and ice businesses besides. He had no military experience, but was costumed as a cavalryman. He wore a saber, which was a gift from his father-in-law.
He went at once to the machine shop to address his troops.
Soon after that wagons carrying riot police arrived. They were ordinary Cleveland policemen, but armed with wooden shields and blunt lances.
An American flag was flown from the top of the bell tower, and another from the pole by the main gate.
It was to be a pageant, young Alexander supposed. There would be no actual killing or wounding. All would be said by the way men posed. The strikers themselves had sent word that they would have their wives and children with them, and that not one of them would have a gun—or even a knife with a blade more than three inches long.
“We wish only,” said their letter, “to take one last look at the factory to which we gave the best years of our lives, and to show our faces to all who may care to look upon them, to show them to God Almighty alone, if only He will look, and to ask, as we stand mute and motionless, ‘Does any American deserve misery and heartbreak such as we now know?’”

Alexander was not insensitive to the beauty of the letter. It had, in fact, been written by the poet Henry Niles Whistler, then in the city to hearten the strikers—a fellow Harvard man. It deserved a majestic reply, thought Alexander. He believed that the flags and the ranks of citizen soldiers and the solemn, steady presence of the police would surely do the job.
The law would be read out loud, and all would hear it, and all would go home. Peace should not be broken for any cause.
Alexander meant to say in his prayer that afternoon that God should protect the working people from leaders like Colin Jarvis, who had encouraged them to bring such misery and heartbreak on themselves.
“Amen,” he said to himself.
•••
And the people came as promised. They came on foot. In order to discourage them, the city fathers had canceled all streetcar service in that part of the city that day.
There were many children among them, and even infants in arms. One infant would be shot to death and inspire the poem by Henry Niles Whistler, later put to music and still sung today, “Bonnie Failey.”
Where were the soldiers? They had been standing in front of the factory fence since eight o’clock, with bayonets already fixed, with full packs on their backs. Those packs weighed fifty pounds and more. They were Colonel Redfield’s idea of how to make his men more fearsome. They were in a single rank, which stretched the width of the plaza. The battle plan was this: If the crowd would not disperse when told to, the soldiers were to level their bayonets and to clear the plaza slowly but irresistibly, glacially—maintaining a perfectly straight rank that bristled with cold steel, and advancing, always on command, one step, then two, then three, then four ...
Only the soldiers had been outside the fence since eight. The snow had kept on falling. So when the first members of the crowd appeared at the far end of the plaza, they gazed at the factory over an expanse of virgin snow. The only footprints were those they themselves had just made.
And many more people came than had spiritual business to conduct specifically with Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron. The strikers themselves were mystified as to who all these other ragged strangers might be—who also, often, had brought their families along. These outsiders, too, wished to demonstrate to simply anybody their misery and heartbreak at Christmastide. Young Alexander, peering through his binoculars, read a sign a man was carrying that said, “Erie Coal and Iron unfair to workers.” Erie Coal and Iron wasn’t even an Ohio firm. It was in Buffalo, New York.
So it was against considerable odds that Bonnie Failey, the infant killed in the Massacre, was actually the child of a striker against Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron, that Henry Niles Whistler was able to say in the refrain of his poem about her:
Damn you, damn you, Dan McCone,
With a soul of pig iron and a heart of stone ...
Young Alexander read the sign about Erie Goal and Iron while standing at a second-story window in an office wing abutting the north wall of the bell tower. He was in a long gallery, also of Venetian inspiration, which had a window every ten feet and a mirror at its far end. The mirror made its length appear to be infinite. The windows looked out over the plaza. It was in this gallery that the four sharpshooters supplied by Pinkerton set up their places of business. Each installed a table at his chosen window and set a comfortable chair behind that. There was a rifle rest on each table.
The sharpshooter nearest Alexander had put a sandbag on his table and had hammered a groove into it with the edge of his hairy hand. There his rifle would rest, with its butt tucked into his shoulder, as he squinted down his sights at this face or that face in the crowd from his easy chair. The sharpshooter farther down the corridor was a machinist by trade, and had built a squat tripod with a swiveling oarlock on top. This squatted on his table. It was into this oarlock that he would slip his rifle if trouble came.
“Patent applied for,” he had told Alexander of his tripod, and he had patted the thing.
Each man had his ammunition and his cleaning rod and his cleaning patches and his oil laid out on the table, as though they might be for sale.
All the windows were still closed now. At some of the others were far angrier and less orderly men. These were regular company guards, who had been up most of the night. Several had been drinking, so they said “... to stay awake.” They had been stationed at the windows with their rifles or shotguns—in case the mob should attack the

factory at all costs, and nothing but withering fire would turn them away.
They had persuaded themselves by now that this attack would surely come. Their alarm and bravado were the first strong hints young Alexander received, as he would tell young Walter F. Starbuck decades afterward, again stammering, that there were “certain instabilities inherent in the pageant.”
He himself, of course, was carrying a loaded revolver in his overcoat pocket—and so were his father and brother, who now came into the corridor to approve of the arrangements one last time. It was ten o’clock in the morning. It was time to open the windows, they said. The plaza was full.
•••
It was time to go up to the top of the tower, they told Alexander, for the best view of all.
So the windows were opened and the sharpshooters laid their rifles in their cradles of different kinds.
Who were the four sharpshooters, really—and was there really such a trade? There was less work for sharpshooters than there was for hangmen at the time. Not one of the four had ever been hired in this capacity before, nor was he likely, unless war came, to be paid for such work ever again. One was a part-time Pinkerton agent, and the other three were his friends. The four of them hunted together regularly, and had for years praised one another for what unbelievably good shots they were. So when the Pinkerton Agency let it be known that it could use four sharpshooters, they materialized almost instantly, like the company of citizen soldiers.
The man with the tripod had invented the device for the occasion. Nor had the man with the sandbag ever couched his rifle on a sandbag before. So it was, too, with the chairs and tables and the tidy displays of ammunition and all that: They had agreed among themselves as to how truly professional sharpshooters should comport themselves.
Years later Alexander McCone, when asked by Starbuck what he thought the principal cause of the Cuyahoga Massacre had been, would reply: “American am-am-am-amateurism in the muh-muh-matters of luh-life and duh- duh-duh-death.”
•••
When the windows were opened, the oceanic murmurs of the crowd came in with the cold air. The crowd wished to be silent, and imagined itself to be silent—but this person had to whisper a little something, and that one had to reply, and so on. Hence, sounds like a sea.
It was mainly this seeming surf that Alexander heard as he stood with his father and brother in the belfry. The defenders of the factory were quiet. Except for the rattles and bumps of the opening of the windows on the second floor, they had made no reply.
Alexander’s father said this as they waited: “It is no dainty thing to shape iron and steel to human needs, my boys. No man in his right mind would do such work, if it were not for fear of cold and hunger. The question is, my boys— how much does the world need iron and steel products? In case anybody wants some, Dan McCone knows how they’re made.”
Now there was a tiny quickening of life inside the fence. The chief of police of Cleveland, carrying a piece of paper on which the Riot Act was written, climbed the steps to the top of the scaffold. This was to be the climax of the pageant, young Alexander supposed, a moment of terrible beauty.
But then he sneezed up there in the belfry. Not only were his lungs emptied of air, but his romantic vision was destroyed. What was about to happen below, he realized, was not majestic. It would be insane. There was no such thing as magic, and yet his father and his brother and the governor, and probably even President Grover Cleveland, expected this police chief to become a wizard, a Merlin—to make a crowd vanish with a magic spell.
“It will not work,” he thought. “It cannot work.”
It did not work.
The chief cast his spell. His shouted words bounced off the buildings, warred with their own echoes, and sounded like Babylonian by the time they reached Alexander’s ears.
Absolutely nothing happened.
The chief climbed down from the scaffold. His manner indicated that he had not expected much of anything to happen, that there were simply too many people out there. It was with great modesty that he rejoined his own shock troops, who were armed with shields and lances, but safe inside the fence. He was not about to ask them to arrest anyone, or to do anything provocative against a crowd so large.

But Colonel Redfield was enraged. He had the gate opened a crack, to let him out so he could join his half-frozen troops. He took his place between two farm boys at the center of the long line. He ordered his men to level their bayonets at those in front of them. Next, he ordered them to take one step forward. This they did.
•••
Looking down on the plaza, young Alexander could see the people at the front of the crowd backing into those behind them as they shrank from the naked steel. People at the back of the crowd, meanwhile, had no idea what was going on, and were not about to depart, to relieve the pressure some.
The soldiers advanced yet another pace and the people retreating put pressure not only on those behind them, but on those beside them, too. Those at either end found themselves squashed against the buildings. The soldiers facing them had no heart for skewering someone so hopelessly immobilized, so they averted their bayonets, opening a space between the blade tips and the unyielding walls.
When the soldiers took yet another step forward, according to Alexander when old, people began “... to squh- squh-squirt around the ends of the luh-luh-line like wuh-wuh-water.” The squirts became torrents, crumpling the flanks of the line and delivering hundreds of people to the space between the factory fence and the undefended rears of the soldiers.
Colonel Redfield, his eyes blazing straight ahead, had no idea what was happening on either side. He ordered yet another advance.
Now the crowd behind the soldiers began to behave quite badly. A youth jumped onto a soldier’s pack like a monkey. The soldier sat down hard and struggled most comically, trying to rise again. Soldier after soldier was brought down in this way. If one got back to his feet, he was pulled down again. And the soldiers began to crawl toward each other for mutual protection. They refused to shoot. They formed a defensive heap, instead, a paralyzed porcupine.
Colonel Redfield was not among them. He was nowhere to be seen. •••
No one was ever found who would admit to ordering the sharpshooters and the guards to open fire from the windows of the factory, but the firing began.
Fourteen people were killed outright by bullets—one of them a soldier. Twenty-three were seriously wounded.
Alexander would say when an old man that the shooting sounded no more serious than “puh-puh-popcorn,” and that he thought a freakish wind had blown across the plaza below, since the people seemed to be blowing away like “luh-luh-leaves.”
When it was all over, there was general satisfaction that honor had been served and that justice had been done. Law and order had been restored.
Old Daniel McCone would say to his sons as he looked out over the battlefield, vacant now except for bodies, “Like it or not, boys, that’s the sort of business you’re in.”
Colonel Redfield would be found in a side street, naked and out of his head, but otherwise unharmed.
Young Alexander did not try to speak afterward until he had to speak, which was at Christmas dinner that afternoon. He was asked to say grace. He discovered then that he had become a bubbling booby, that his stammer was so bad now that he could not speak at all.
He would never go to the factory again. He would become Cleveland’s leading art collector and the chief donor to the Cleveland Museum of Fine Arts, demonstrating that the McCone family was interested in more than money and power for money’s and power’s sakes.
•••
His stammer was so bad for the rest of his life that he seldom ventured outside his mansion on Euclid Avenue. He had married a Rockefeller one month before his stammer became so bad. Otherwise, as he would later say, he would probably never have married at all.
He had one daughter, who was embarrassed by him, as was his wife. He would make only one friendship after the Massacre. It would be with a child. It would be with the son of his cook and his chauffeur.

The multimillionaire wanted someone who would play chess with him many hours a day. So he seduced the boy, so to speak, with simpler games first—hearts and old maid, checkers and dominoes. But he also taught him chess. Soon they were playing only chess. Their conversations were limited to conventional chess taunts and teasings, which had not changed in a thousand years.
Samples: “Have you played this game before?” “Really?” “Spot me a queen.” “Is this a trap?”
The boy was Walter F. Starbuck. He was willing to spend his childhood and youth so unnaturally for this reason: Alexander Hamilton McCone promised to send him to Harvard someday.
—K.V.

Help the weak ones that cry for me, help the prosecuted and the victim, because they are your better friends; they are the comrades that fight and fall as your father and Bartolo fought and fell yesterday for the conquest of the joy of freedom for all the poor workers. In this struggle of life you will find more love and you will be loved.
—NICOLA SACCO (1891-1927)
in his last letter to his thirteen-year-old-son, Dante, August 18, 1927, three days before his execution in Charlestown Prison, Boston, Massachusetts. “Bartolo” was Bartolomeo Vanzetti (1888—1927), who died the same night in the same electric chair, the invention of a dentist. So did an even more forgotten man, Celestino Madeiros (1894—1927), who confessed to the crime of which Sacco and Vanzetti had been convicted, even while his own conviction for another murder was being appealed. Madeiros was a notorious criminal, who behaved unselfishly at the end.

1
LIFE GOES ON, yes—and a fool and his self-respect are soon parted, perhaps never to be reunited even on Judgment Day.
Pay attention, please, for years as well as people are characters in this book, which is the story of my life so far. Nineteen-hundred and Twenty-nine wrecked the American economy. Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-one sent me to Harvard. Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-eight got me my first job in the federal government. Nineteen-hundred and Forty-six gave me a wife. Nineteen-hundred and Forty-six gave me an ungrateful son. Nineteen-hundred and Fifty- three fired me from the federal government.
Thus do I capitalize years as though they were proper names.
Nineteen-hundred and Seventy gave me a job in the Nixon White House. Nineteen-hundred and Seventy-five sent me to prison for my own preposterous contributions to the American political scandals known collectively as “Watergate.”
Three years ago, as I write, Nineteen-hundred and Seventy-seven was about to turn me loose again. I felt like a piece of garbage. I was wearing olive-drab coveralls, the prison uniform. I sat alone in a dormitory—on a cot that I had stripped of its bedding. A blanket, two sheets, and a pillowcase, which were to be returned to my government along with my uniform, were folded neatly on my lap. My speckled old hands were clasped atop these. I stared straight ahead at a wall on the second floor of a barracks at the Federal Minimum Security Adult Correctional Facility on the edge of Finletter Air Force Base—thirty-five miles from Atlanta, Georgia. I was waiting for a guard to conduct me to the Administration Building, where I would be given my release papers and my civilian clothes. There would be no one to greet me at the gate. Nowhere in the world was there anyone who had a forgiving hug for me—or a free meal or a bed for a night or two.
If anyone had been watching me, he would have seen me do something quite mysterious every five minutes or so. Without changing my blank expression, I would lift my hands from the bedding and I would clap three times. I will explain why by and by.
It was nine in the morning on April twenty-first. The guard was one hour late. A fighter plane leaped up from the top of a nearby runway, destroyed enough energy to heat one hundred homes for a thousand years, tore the sky to shreds. I did not bat an eyelash. The event was merely tedious to old prisoners and guards at Finletter. It happened all the time.
Most of the other prisoners, all of them convicted of nonviolent, white-collar crimes, had been trundled away in purple schoolbuses to work details around the base. Only a small housekeeping crew had been left behind—to wash windows, to mop floors. There were a few others around, writing or reading or napping—too sick, with heart trouble or back trouble, usually, to do manual work of any kind. I myself would have been feeding a mangle in the laundry at the base hospital if it had been a day like any other day. My health was excellent, as they say.
Was I shown no special respect in prison as a Harvard man? It was no distinction, actually. I had met or heard of at least seven others. And no sooner would I leave than my cot would be taken by Virgil Greathouse, former secretary of health, education, and welfare, who was also a Harvard man. I was quite low on the educational ladder at Finletter, with nothing but a poor bachelor’s degree. I was not even a Phi Beta Kappa. We must have had twenty or more Phi Beta Kappas, a dozen or more medical doctors, an equal number of dentists, a veterinarian, a Doctor of Divinity, a Doctor of Economics, a Doctor of Philosophy in chemistry, and simply shoals of disbarred lawyers. Lawyers were so common that we had a joke for newcomers that went like this: “If you find yourself talking to somebody who hasn’t been to law school, watch your step. He’s either the warden or a guard.”
My own poor degree was in the liberal arts, with some emphasis on history and economics. It was my plan when I entered Harvard to become a public servant, an employee rather than an elected official. I believed that there could be no higher calling in a democracy than to a lifetime in government. Since I did not know what branch of government might take me on, whether the State Department or the Bureau of Indian Affairs or whatever, I would make my wisdom as widely applicable as possible. For this reason did I take a liberal arts degree.

And I speak now of my plans and my beliefs—but, being so new to the planet in those days, I had been glad to adopt as my own the plans and beliefs of a much older man. He was a Cleveland multimillionaire named Alexander Hamilton McCone, a member of the Harvard class of Eighteen-hundred and Ninety-four. He was the reclusive, stammering son of Daniel McCone. Daniel McCone was a brilliant and brutal Scottish engineer and metallurgist, who founded the Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron Company, the largest single employer in Cleveland when I was born. Imagine being born as long ago as Nineteen-hundred and Thirteen! Will young people of today doubt me if I aver with a straight face that the Ohio skies back then were often darkened by flocks of hooting pterodactyls, and that forty-ton brontosaurs basked and crooned in the Cuyahoga River’s ooze? No.
Alexander Hamilton McCone was forty-one years old when I was born into his mansion on Euclid Avenue. He was married to the former Alice Rockefeller, who was even richer than he was, and who spent most of her time in Europe with their one child, a daughter named Clara. Mother and daughter, no doubt embarrassed by Mr. McCone’s terrible speech impediment, and even more dismayed, perhaps, by his wanting to do nothing with his life but read books all day long, were seldom home. Divorce was unthinkable back then.
Clara—are you still alive? She hated me. Some people did and do.
That’s life.
And what was I to Mr. McCone, that I should have been born into the unhappy stillness of his mansion? My mother, born Anna Kairys in Russian Lithuania, was his cook. My father, born Stanislaus Stankiewicz in Russian Poland, was his bodyguard and chauffeur. They genuinely loved him.
Mr. McCone built a handsome apartment for them, and for me, too, on the second floor of his carriage house. And, as I grew older, I became his playmate, always indoors. He taught me hearts and old maid, checkers and dominoes—and chess. Soon we were playing only chess. He did not play well. I won almost all of the games, and it is possible that he was secretly drunk. He never tried hard to win, I thought. In any event, and very early on, he began to tell me and my parents that I was a genius, which I surely was not, and that he would send me to Harvard. He must have said to my father and mother a thousand times over the years, “You are going to find yourselves the proud parents of a perfect Harvard gentleman someday.”
To that end, and when I was about ten years old, he had us change our family name from Stankiewicz to Starbuck. I would be better received at Harvard, he said, if I had an Anglo-Saxon name. Thus did Walter F. Starbuck become my name.
He himself had done badly at Harvard, had scarcely squeaked through. He had also been scorned socially, not only for his stammer but for his being the obscenely rich son of an immigrant. There was every reason for him to hate Harvard—but I watched him over the years so sentimentalize and romanticize, and finally so worship the place that, by the time I was in high school, he believed that Harvard professors were the wisest men in the history of the world. America could be paradise, if only all high posts in government were filled by Harvard men.
And, as things turned out: When I went to work for the government as a bright young man in Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s Department of Agriculture, more and more posts were being filled by Harvard men. That seemed only right to me back then. It seems mildly comical to me now. Not even in prison as I say, is there anything special about Harvard men.
While I was a student, I sometimes caught the whiff of a promise that, after I graduated, I would be better than average at explaining important matters to people who were slow at catching on. Things did not work out that way.
So there I sat in prison in Nineteen-hundred and Seventy-seven, waiting for the guard to come. I wasn’t annoyed at his being an hour late so far. I was in no hurry to go anyplace, had no place in particular to go. The guard’s name was Clyde Carter. He was one of the few friends I had made in prison. Our chief bond was that we had taken the same correspondence course in bartending from a diploma mill in Chicago, The Illinois Institute of Instruction, a division of The RAMJAC Corporation. On the same day and in the same mail each of us had received his Doctor of Mixology degree. Clyde had then surpassed me by taking the school’s course in air conditioning, as well. Clyde was a third cousin to the President of the United States, Jimmy Carter. He was about five years younger than the President, but was otherwise his perfect spit and image. He had the same nice manners, the same bright smile.
A degree in bartending was enough for me. That was all I intended to do with the rest of my life: tend a quiet bar somewhere, ideally in a club for gentlemen.
And I lifted my old hands from the folded bedding and I clapped three times.
Another fighter plane leaped up from the tip of a nearby runway, tore the sky to shreds. I thought this: “At least I don’t smoke anymore.” It was true. I, who used to smoke four packages of unfiltered Pall Malls a day, was no longer a slave to King Nicotine. I would soon be reminded of how much I used to smoke, for the gray, pinstripe, three-

piece Brooks Brothers suit awaiting me over in the supply room would be riddled with cigarette burns. There was a hole the size of a dime in the crotch, I remembered. A newspaper photograph was taken of me as I sat in the back of the federal marshal’s green sedan, right after I was sentenced to prison. It was widely interpreted as showing how ashamed I was, haggard, horrified, unable to look anyone in the eye. It was in fact a photograph of a man who had just set his pants on fire.
I thought now about Sacco and Vanzetti. When I was young, I believed that the story of their martyrdom would cause an irresistible mania for justice to the common people to spread throughout the world. Does anybody know or care who they were anymore?
No.
I thought about the Cuyahoga Massacre, which was the bloodiest single encounter between strikers and an employer in the history of American labor. It happened in Cleveland, in front of the main gate of Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron, on Christmas morning in Eighteen-hundred and Ninety-four. That was long before I was born. My parents were still children in the Russian Empire when it happened. But the man who sent me to Harvard, Alexander Hamilton McCone, watched it from the factory clock tower in the company of his father and his older brother John. That was when he ceased to be a slight stammerer and became, when the least bit anxious about anything, a bubbling booby of totally blocked language instead.
Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron, incidentally, lost its identity, save in labor history, long ago. It was absorbed by Youngstown Steel shortly after the Second World War, and Youngstown Steel itself has now become a mere division of The RAMJAC Corporation.
Peace.
Yes, and I lifted my old hands from the folded bedding, and I clapped three times. Here was what that was all about, as silly as it was: Those three claps completed a rowdy song I had never liked, and which I had not thought about for thirty years or more. I was making my mind as blank as possible, you see, since the past was so embarrassing and the future so terrifying. I had made so many enemies over the years that I doubted that I could even get a job as a bartender somewhere. I would simply get dirtier and raggedier, I thought, since I would have no money coming in from anywhere. I would wind up on Skid Row and learn to keep the cold out by drinking wine, I thought, although I had never liked alcohol.
The worst thing, I thought, was that I would be asleep in an alley in the Bowery, say, and juvenile delinquents who loathed dirty old men would come along with a can of gasoline. They would soak me in it, and they would touch me off. And the worst thing about that, I thought, would be having my eyeballs lapped by flames.
No wonder I craved an empty mind!
But I could achieve mental vacancy only intermittently. Most of the time, as I sat there on the cot, I settled for an only slightly less perfect peace, which was filled with thoughts that need not scare me—about Sacco and Vanzetti, as I say, and about the Cuyahoga Massacre, about playing chess with old Alexander Hamilton McCone, and on and on.
Perfect blankness, when I achieved it, lasted only ten seconds or so—and then it would be wrecked by the song, sung loudly and clearly in my head by an alien voice, which required for its completion that I clap three times. The words were highly offensive to me when I first heard them, which was at a drunken stag party at Harvard during my freshman year. It was a song to be kept secret from women. It may be that no woman has ever heard it, even at this late date. The intent of the lyricist, obviously, was to so coarsen the feelings of males who sang the song that the singers could never believe again what most of us believed with all our hearts back then: that women were more spiritual, more sacred than men.
I still believe that about women. Is that, too, comical? I have loved only four women in my life—my mother, my late wife, a woman to whom I was once affianced, and one other. I will describe them all by and by. Let it be said now, though, that all four seemed more virtuous, braver about life, and closer to the secrets of the universe than I could ever be.
Be that as it may, I will now set down the words to the frightful song. And even though I have been technically responsible, because of my high position in a corporate structure in recent years, for the publication of some of the most scurrilous books about women ever written, I still find myself shrinking from setting on paper, where they have perhaps never been before, the words to the song. The tune to which they were sung, incidentally, was an old one, a tune that I call “Ruben, Ruben.” It no doubt has many other names.
Readers of the words should realize, too, that I heard them sung not by middle-aged roughnecks, but by college boys, by children, really, who, with a Great Depression going on and with a Second World War coming, and with

most of them mocked by their own virginity, had reason to be petrified of all the things that women of that time would expect of them. Women would expect them to earn good money after they graduated, and they did not see how they could do that, with all the businesses shutting down. Women would expect them to be brave soldiers, and there seemed every chance that they would go to pieces when the shrapnel and bullets flew. Who could be absolutely responsible for his own reactions when the shrapnel and bullets flew? There would be flame throwers and poison gas. There would be terrific bangs. The man standing beside you could have his head blown off—and his throat would be a fountain.
And women, when they became their wives, would expect them to be perfect lovers even on the wedding night— subtle, tender, raffish, respectful, titillatingly debauched, and knowing as much about the reproductive organs of both sexes as Harvard Medical School.
I recall a discussion of a daring magazine article that appeared at that time. It told of the frequency of sexual intercourse by American males in various professions and trades. Firemen were the most ardent, making love ten times a week. College professors were the least ardent, making love once a month. And a classmate of mine, who, as it happened, would actually be killed in the Second World War, shook his head mournfully and said, “Gee—I’d give anything to be a college professor.”
The shocking song, then, may really have been a way of honoring the powers of women, of dealing with the fears they inspired. It might properly be compared with a song making fun of lions, sung by lion hunters on a night before a hunt.
The words were these:
Sally in the garden,
Sifting cinders,
Lifted up her leg
And farted like a man.
The bursting of her bloomers Broke sixteen winders.
The cheeks of her ass went—
Here the singers, in order to complete the stanza, were required to clap three times.

2
MY OFFICIAL TITLE in the Nixon White House, the job I was holding when I was arrested for embezzlement, perjury, and obstruction of justice, was this: the President’s special advisor on youth affairs. I was paid thirty-six thousand dollars a year. I had an office, but no secretary, in the subbasement of the Executive Office Building, directly underneath, as it happened, the office where burglaries and other crimes on behalf of President Nixon were planned. I could hear people walking overhead and raising their voices sometimes. On my own level in the subbasement my only companions were heating and air-conditioning equipment and a Coca-Cola machine that only I knew about, I think. I was the only person to patronize that machine.
Yes, and I read college and high-school newspapers and magazines, and Rolling Stone and Crawdaddy, and anything else that claimed to speak for youth. I catalogued political statements in the words of popular songs. My chief qualification for the job, I thought, was that I myself had been a radical at Harvard, starting in my junior year. Nor had I been cochairman of the Harvard chapter of the Young Communist League. I had been cochairman of a radical weekly paper, The Bay State Progressive. I was in fact, openly and proudly, a card-carrying communist until Hitler and Stalin signed a nonaggression pact in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-nine. Hell and heaven, as I saw it, were making common cause against weakly defended peoples everywhere. After that I became a cautious believer in capitalistic democracy again.
It was once so acceptable in this country to be a communist that my being one did not prevent my winning a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford after Harvard, and then landing a job in Roosevelt’s Department of Agriculture after that. What could be so repulsive after all, during the Great Depression, especially, and with yet another war for natural wealth and markets coming, in a young man’s belief that each person could work as well as he or she was able, and should be rewarded, sick or well, young or old, brave or frightened, talented or imbecilic, according to his or her simple needs? How could anyone treat me as a person with a diseased mind if I thought that war need never come again—if only common people everywhere would take control of the planet’s wealth, disband their national armies, and forget their national boundaries; if only they would think of themselves ever after as brothers and sisters, yes, and as mothers and fathers, too, and children of all other common people—everywhere. The only person who would be excluded from such friendly and merciful society would be one who took more wealth than he or she needed at any time.
And even now, at the rueful age of sixty-six, I find my knees still turn to water when I encounter anyone who still considers it a possibility that there will one day be one big happy peaceful family on Earth—the Family of Man. If I were this very day to meet myself as I was in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-three, I would swoon with pity and respectfulness.
So my idealism did not die even in the Nixon White House, did not die even in prison, did not die even when I became, my most recent employment, a vice-president of the Down Home Records Division of The RAMJAC Corporation.
I still believe that peace and plenty and happiness can be worked out some way. I am a fool.
When I was Richard M. Nixon’s special advisor on youth affairs, from Nineteen-hundred and Seventy until my arrest in Nineteen-hundred and Seventy-five, smoking four packs of unfiltered Pall Malls a day, nobody ever asked me for facts or opinions or anything. I need not even have come to work, and I might have spent my time better in helping my poor wife with the little interior-decorating business she ran out of our right little, tight little brick bungalow out in Chevy Chase, Maryland. The only visitors I ever had to my subterranean office, its walls golden- brown with cigarette tars, were the President’s special burglars, whose office was above mine. They suddenly realized one day, when I had a coughing fit, that somebody was right below them, and that I might be able to hear their conversations. They performed experiments, with one of them yelling and stamping upstairs, and another one listening in my office. They satisfied themselves at last that I had heard nothing, and was a harmless old poop, in any event. The yeller and stamper was a former Central Intelligence Agency operative, a writer of spy thrillers, and a graduate of Brown University. The listener below was a former agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, a

former district attorney, and a graduate of Fordham University. I myself, as I may have said already, was a Harvard man.
And this Harvard man, knowing full well that everything he wrote would be shredded and baled with all the rest of the White House wastepaper, unread, still turned out some two hundred or more weekly reports on the sayings and doings of youth, with footnotes, bibliographies, and appendices and all. But the conclusions implied by my materials changed so little over the years that I might as well have simply sent the same telegrams each week to limbo. It would have said this:
YOUNG PEOPLE STILL REFUSE TO SEE THE OBVIOUS IMPOSSIBILITY OF WORLD DISARMAMENT AND ECONOMIC EQUALITY. COULD BE FAULT OF NEW TESTAMENT (QUOD VIDE).
walter f. starbuck president’s special advisor on youth affairs
At the end of every futile day in the subbasement I would go home to the only wife I have ever had, who was Ruth—waiting for me in our little brick bungalow in Chevy Chase, Maryland. She was Jewish, which I am not. So our only child, a son who is now a book reviewer for The New York Times, is half-Jewish. He has further confused racial and religious matters by marrying a black nightclub singer, who has two children by a former husband. The former husband was a nightclub comedian of Puerto Rican extraction named Jerry Cha-cha Rivera, who was shot as an innocent bystander during the robbery of a RAMJAC carwash in Hollywood. My son has adopted the children, so that they are now legally my grandchildren, my only grandchildren.
Life goes on.
My late wife Ruth, the grandmother of these children, was born in Vienna. Her family owned a rarebook store there—before the Nazis took it away from them. She was six years younger than I. Her father and mother and two siblings were killed in concentration camps. She herself was hidden by a Christian family, but was discovered and arrested, along with the head of that family, in Nineteen-hundred and Forty-two. So she herself was in a concentration camp near Munich, finally liberated by American troops, for the last two years of the war. She herself would die in her sleep in Nineteen-hundred and Seventy-four—of congestive heart failure, two weeks before my own arrest. Whither I went, and no matter how clumsily, there did my Ruth go—as long as she could. If I marveled at this out loud, she would say, “Where else could I be? What else could I do?”
She might have been a great translator, for one thing. Languages came so easily to her, as they did not to me. I spent four years in Germany after the Second World War, but never mastered German. But there was no European language that Ruth could not speak at least a little bit. She passed the time in the concentration camp, waiting for death, by getting other prisoners to teach her languages she did not know. Thus did she become fluent in Romany, the tongue of the Gypsies, and even learned the words to some songs in Basque. She might have become a portrait artist. That was another thing she had done in prison: With a finger dipped in lampblack, she had drawn on the walls likenesses of those passing through. She might have been a famous photographer. When she was only sixteen, three years before Germany annexed Austria, she photographed one hundred beggars in Vienna, all of whom were terribly wounded veterans of World War One. These were sold in portfolios, one of which I have found recently, and to my heartbroken amazement, in the collection of New York’s Museum of Modern Art. She could also play the piano, whereas I am tone-deaf. I cannot even sing “Sally in the Garden” on key.
I was Ruth’s inferior, you might say.
When things started to go really badly for me in the fifties and sixties, when I was unable to get a decent job anywhere, despite all the high posts I had held in government, despite all the important people I knew, it was Ruth who rescued our unpopular little family out in Chevy Chase. She began with two failures, which depressed her at first, but which would later make her laugh so hard that tears streamed from her eyes. Her first failure was as a piano player in a cocktail lounge. The proprietor, when he fired her, told her that she was too good, that his particular clientele “... didn’t appreciate the finer things in life.” Her second failure was as a wedding photographer. There was always an air of prewar doom about her photographs, which no retoucher would eradicate. It was as though the entire wedding party would wind up in the trenches or the gas chambers by and by.
But then she became an interior decorator, beguiling prospective clients with watercolors of rooms she would like to do for them. And I was her clumsy assistant, hanging draperies, holding wallpaper samples against a wall, taking telephone messages from clients, running errands, picking up swatches of this and that—and on and on. I set fire to eleven hundred dollars’ worth of blue velvet draperies one time. No wonder my son never respected me.
When did he ever have a chance to?
My God—there his mother was, trying to support the family, and scrimping and saving to get by. And there his

unemployed father was, always in the way and helpless, and finally setting fire to a fortune in draperies with a cigarette!
Hooray for a Harvard education! Oh, to be the proud son of a Harvard man!
Ruth was a tiny woman, incidentally—with coppery skin and straight black hair and high cheekbones and deep- set eyes. The first time I laid eyes on her, which was in Nuremberg, Germany, in late August of Nineteen-hundred and Forty-five, she was wearing voluminous army fatigues, and I mistook her for a Gypsy boy. I was a civilian employee of the Defense Department, thirty-two years old. I had never married. I had been a civilian all through the war, often exercising more real power than generals or admirals. Now I was in Nuremberg, ogling the wreckage of war for the first time. I had been sent over to oversee the feeding and housing of the American, British, French, and Russian delegations to the War Crimes Trials. I had previously set up recuperation centers for American soldiers in various resort areas in the United States, so I knew a little something about the hotel trade.
I was to be a dictator to the Germans as far as food and drink and beds were considered. My official vehicle was a white Mercedes touring car, a four-door convertible with a windshield for the backseat as well as the front. It had a siren. It had little sockets on its front fenders for flags. I of course flew American flags. This dreamboat, as young people might call it, had been an anniversary present from Heinrich Himmler, the creator of concentration camps, to his wife in the good old days. Wherever I went, I had an armed chauffeur. My father, remember, had been a millionaire’s armed chauffeur.
And I was being driven down the main street, the Königstrasse, one August afternoon. The War Crimes Tribunal was meeting in Berlin but was going to move to Nuremberg as soon as I could get things ready there. The street was still blocked by rubble here and there. It was being cleared away by German prisoners of war, who labored, as it happened, under the smoldering gazes of black American military policemen. The American Army was still segregated in those days. Every unit was all black or all white, except for the officers, who were usually white in any case. I do not recall having felt that there was anything odd in this scheme. I knew nothing about black people. There had been no black people on the household staff of the McCone mansion in Cleveland, no black people in my schools. Not even when I was a communist had I had a black person for a friend.
Near Saint Martha’s Church on the Königstrasse, which had had its roof burned off by a firebomb, my Mercedes was halted at a security checkpoint. It was manned by white American Military Police. They were looking for people who were not where they were supposed to be, now that civilization was being started up again. They were seeking deserters from every imaginable army, including the American one, and war criminals not yet apprehended, and lunatics and common criminals, who had simply sauntered from the approaching front lines, and citizens of the Soviet Union, who had defected to the Germans or been captured by them, who would be imprisoned or killed, if they went back home. Russians were supposed, no matter what, to go back to Russia; Poles were supposed to go back to Poland; Hungarians to Hungary; Estonians to Estonia; and on and on. Everybody, no matter what, was supposed to go home.
I was curious as to what sort of interpreters the M.P.’s were using, since I was having trouble finding good ones for my own operations. I particularly needed people who were tri-lingual, who were fluent in both German and English, and in either French or Russian as well. They also had to be trustworthy, polite, and presentable. So I got out of my car to have a closer look at the interrogations. I discovered that they were being conducted, surprisingly, by a seeming Gypsy boy. It was my Ruth, of course. Her hair had all been cut off at a de-lousing station. She was wearing Army fatigues without any badges of unit or rank. She was beautiful to watch as she tried to elicit a glimmer of understanding from a ragbag of a man, whom the M.P.’s held before her. She must have tried seven or eight languages on him, slipping from one to another as easily as a musician changing tempos and keys. Not only that, but she altered her gestures, too, so that her hands were always doing appropriate dances to each language.
Suddenly, the man’s hands were dancing as hers were, and the sounds coming from his mouth were like those she was making. As Ruth would tell me later, he was a Macedonian peasant from southern Yugoslavia. The language they had found in common was Bulgarian. He had been taken prisoner by the Germans, even though he had never been a soldier, and had been sent as a slave laborer to strengthen the forts of the Siegfried Line. He had never learned German. Now he wanted to go to America, he told Ruth, to become a very rich man. He was shipped back to Macedonia, I presume.
Ruth was then twenty-six years old—but she had eaten so bad for seven years, mostly potatoes and turnips, that she was an asexual stick. She herself, it turned out, had come to the roadblock only an hour before I had, and had been pressed into service by the M.P.’s, because of all the languages she knew. I asked an M.P. sergeant how old he thought she was, and he guessed, “Fifteen.” He thought she was a boy whose voice had yet to change.
I coaxed her into the backseat of my Mercedes and I questioned her there. I learned that she had been freed from a

concentration camp in springtime, about four months before—and had since eluded every agency that might have liked to help her. She should by now have been in a hospital for displaced persons. She was uninterested in ever trusting anybody with her destiny anymore. Her plan was to roam alone and out-of-doors forever, from nowhere to nowhere in a demented sort of religious ecstasy. “No one ever touches me,” she said, “and I never touch anyone. I am like a bird in flight. It is so beautiful. There is only God—and me.”
I thought this of her: that she resembled gentle Ophelia in Hamlet, who became fey and lyrical when life was too cruel to bear. I have a copy of Hamlet at hand, and refresh my memory as to the nonsense Ophelia sang when she would no longer respond intelligently to those who asked how she was.
This was the song:
How should I your true love know From another one?
By his cockle hat and staff,
And his sandal shoon.
He is dead and gone, lady,
He is dead and gone;
At his head a grass-green turf, At his heels a stone—
And on and on.
Ruth, one of millions of Europe’s Ophelias after the Second World War, fainted in my motorcar.
I took her to a twenty-bed hospital in the Kaiserburg, the imperial castle, which wasn’t even officially operating yet. It was being set up exclusively for persons associated with the War Crimes Trials. The head of it was a Harvard classmate of mine, Dr. Ben Shapiro, who had also been a communist in student days. He was now a lieutenant colonel in the Army Medical Corps. Jews were not numerous at Harvard in my day. There was a strict quota, and a low one, as to how many Jews were let in each year.
“What have we here, Walter?” he said to me in Nuremberg. I was carrying the unconscious Ruth in my arms. She weighed no more than a handkerchief. “It’s a girl,” I said. “She’s breathing. She speaks many languages. She fainted. That’s all I know.”
He had an idle staff of nurses, cooks, technicians, and so on, and the finest food and medicines that the Army could give him, since he was likely to have high-ranking persons for patients by and by. So Ruth received, and for nothing, the finest care available on the planet. Why? Mostly because, I think, Shapiro and I were both Harvard men.
One year later, more or less, on October fifteenth of Nineteen-hundred and Forty-six, Ruth would become my wife. The War Crimes Trials were over. On the day we were married, and probably conceived our only child as well, Reichsmarschall Hermann Göring cheated the hangman by swallowing cyanide.
It was vitamins and minerals and protein and, of course, tender, loving care, that made all the difference to Ruth. After only three weeks in the hospital she was a sane and witty Viennese intellectual. I hired her as my personal interpreter and took her everywhere with me. Through another Harvard acquaintance, a shady colonel in the Quartermaster Corps in Wiesbaden—a black marketeer, I’m sure—I was able to get her a suitable wardrobe, for which, mysteriously, I was never asked to pay anyone. The woolens were from Scotland, the cottons from Egypt— the silks from China, I suppose. The shoes were French—and prewar. One pair, I remember, was alligator, and came with a bag to match. The goods were priceless, since no store in Europe, or in North America, for that matter, had offered anything like them for years. The sizes, moreover, were exactly right for Ruth. These blackmarket treasures were delivered to my office in cartons claiming to contain mimeograph paper belonging to the Royal Canadian Air Force. Two taciturn young male citizens delivered them in what had once been a Wehrmacht ambulance. Ruth guessed that one was Belgian and the other, like my mother, Lithuanian.
My accepting those goods was surely my most corrupt act as a public servant, and my only corrupt act—until Watergate. I did it for love.
I began to speak to Ruth of love almost as soon as she got out of the hospital and went to work for me. Her replies were kind of funny and perceptive—but above all pessimistic. She believed, and was entitled to believe, I must say, that all human beings were evil by nature, whether tormentors or victims, or idle standers-by. They could only create meaningless tragedies, she said, since they weren’t nearly intelligent enough to accomplish all the good they meant to do. We were a disease, she said, which had evolved on one tiny cinder in the universe, but could spread and spread.
“How can you speak of love to a woman,” she asked me early in our courtship, “who feels that it would be just as

well if nobody had babies anymore, if the human race did not go on?”
“Because I know you don’t really believe that,” I replied. “Ruth—look at how full of life you are!” It was true. There was no movement or sound she made that was not at least accidentally flirtatious—and what is flirtatiousness but an argument that life must go on and on and on?
What a charmer she was! Oh, I got the credit for how smoothly things ran. My own country gave me a Distinguished Service Medal, and France made me a chevalier in the Légion d’honneur, and Great Britain and the Soviet Union sent me letters of commendation and thanks. But it was Ruth who worked all the miracles, who kept each guest in a state of delighted forgivingness, no matter what went wrong.
“How can you dislike life and still be so lively?” I asked her.
“I couldn’t have a child, even if I wanted to,” she said. “That’s how lively I am.”
She was wrong about that, of course. She was only guessing. She would give birth to a son by and by, a very unpleasant person, who, as I have already said, is now a book reviewer for The New York Times.
That conversation with Ruth in Nuremberg went on. We were in Saint Martha’s Church, close to where fate had first brought us together. It was not yet operating as a church again. The roof had been put back on—but there was a canvas flap where the rose window used to be. The window and the altar, an old custodian told us, had been demolished by a single cannon shell from a British fighter plane. To him, judging from his solemnity, this was yet another religious miracle. And I must say that I seldom met a male German who was saddened by all the destruction in his own country. It was always the ballistics of whatever had done the wrecking that he wished to talk about.
“There is more to life than having babies, Ruth,” I said.
“If I had one, it would be a monster,” she said. And it came to pass.
“Never mind babies,” I said. “Think of the new era that is being born. The world has learned its lesson at last, at last. The closing chapter to ten thousand years of madness and greed is being written right here and now—in Nuremberg. Books will be written about it. Movies will be made about it. It’s the most important turning point in history.” I believed it.
“Walter,” she said, “sometimes I think you are only eight years old.”
“It’s the only age to be,” I said, “when a new era is being born.”
Clocks struck six all over town. A new voice joined the chorus of public chimes and bells. It was in fact an old voice in Nuremberg, but Ruth and I had never heard it before. It was the deep bonging of the Männleinlaufen, the bizarre clock of the distant Frauenkirche. That clock was built more than four hundred years ago. My ancestors, both Lithuanian and Polish, would have been fighting Ivan the Terrible back then.
The visible part of the clock consisted of seven robots, which represented seven fourteenth-century electors. They were designed to circle an eighth robot, which represented the Holy Roman Emperor Charles the Fourth, and to celebrate his exclusion, in Thirteen-hundred and Fifty-six, of the Papacy from the selection of German rulers. The clock had been knocked out by bombing. American soldiers who were clever with machinery had begun on their own time to tinker with it as soon as they occupied the city. Most Germans I had talked to were so demoralized that they did not care if the Männleinlaufen never ran again. But it was running again, anyway. Thanks to American ingenuity, the electors were circling Charles the Fourth again.
“Well,” said Ruth, when the sounds of the bells had died away, “when you eight-year-olds kill Evil here in Nuremberg, be sure to bury it at a crossroads and drive a stake through its heart—or you just might see it again at the next full moooooooooooooooooon.”

3
BUT MY UNFLAGGING optimism prevailed. Ruth consented at last to marry me, to let me try to make her the happiest of women, despite all the ghastly things that had happened to her so far. She was a virgin, and so very nearly was I, although I was thirty-three—although, roughly speaking, half my life was over.
Oh, to be sure, I had, while in Washington, “made love,” as they say, to this woman or that one from time to time. There was a WAC. There was a Navy nurse. There was a stenographer in the Department of Commerce typing pool. But I was fundamentally a fanatical monk in the service of war, war, war. There were many like me. Nothing else in life is nearly so obsessive as war, war, war.
My wedding gift to Ruth was a wood carving commissioned by me. It depicted hands of an old person pressed together in prayer. It was a three-dimensional rendering of a drawing by Albrecht Dürer, a sixteenth-century artist, whose house Ruth and I had visited many times in Nuremberg, during our courting days. That was my invention, so far as I know, having those famous hands on paper rendered in the round. Such hands have since been manufactured by the millions and are staples of dim-witted piety in gift shops everywhere.
Soon after our marriage I was transferred to Wiesbaden, Germany, outside of Frankfurt am Main, where I was placed in charge of a team of civilian engineers, which was winnowing mountains of captured German technical documents for inventions and manufacturing methods and trade secrets American industry might use. It did not matter that I knew no math or chemistry or physics—any more than it had mattered when I went to work for the Department of Agriculture that I had never been near a farm, that I had not even tended a pot of African violets on a windowsill. There was nothing that a humanist could not supervise—or so it was widely believed at the time.
Our son was born by cesarean section in Wiesbaden. Ben Shapiro, who had been my best man, and who had also been transferred to Wiesbaden, delivered the child. He had just been promoted to full colonel. In a few years Senator Joseph R. McCarthy would find that promotion to have been sinister, since it was well known that Shapiro had been a communist before the war. “Who promoted Shapiro to Wiesbaden?” he would want to know.
We named our son Walter F. Starbuck, Jr. Little did we dream that the name would become as onerous as Judas Iscariot, Jr., to the boy. He would seek legal remedy when he turned twenty-one, would have his name changed to Walter F. Stankiewicz, the name that appears over his columns in The New York Times. Stankiewicz, of course, was our discarded family name. And I must laugh now, remembering something my father once told me about his arrival at Ellis Island as an immigrant. He was advised that Stankiewicz had unpleasant connotations to American ears, that people would think he smelled bad, even if he sat in a bathtub all day long.
I returned to the United States with my little human family, to Washington, D.C., again, in the autumn of Nineteen-hundred and Forty-nine. My optimism became bricks and mortar and wood and nails. We bought the only house we would ever own, which was the little bungalow in Chevy Chase, Maryland. Ruth put on the mantelpiece the woodcarving of the praying hands by Albrecht Dürer. There were two things that had made her want to buy that house and no other, she said. One was that it had a perfect resting place for the hands. The other was a gnarled old tree that shaded the walk to our doorstep. It was a flowering crab apple tree.
Was she religious? No. She was from a family that was skeptical about all formal forms of worship, which was classified as Jewish by the Nazis. Its members would not have so classified themselves. I asked her once if she had ever sought the consolations of religion in the concentration camp.
“No,” she said. “I knew God would never come near such a place. So did the Nazis. That was what made them so hilarious and unafraid. That was the strength of the Nazis,” she said. “They understood God better than anyone. They knew how to make Him stay away.”
I still ponder a toast Ruth gave one Christmas Eve, in Nineteen-hundred and Seventy-four or so. I was the only person to hear it—the only other person in the bungalow. Our son had not sent us so much as a Christmas card. The toast was this, and I suppose she might just as logically have given it on the day I met her in Nuremberg: “Here’s to God Almighty, the laziest man in town.”

Strong stuff.
Yes—and my speckled old hands were like the Albrecht Dürer hands atop my folded bedding, as I sat on my prison cot in Georgia, waiting for freedom to begin again.
I was a pauper.
I had emptied my savings account and cashed in my life-insurance policies and sold my Volkswagen and my brick bungalow in Chevy Chase, Maryland, in order to pay for my futile defense.
My lawyers said that I still owed them one hundred and twenty-six thousand dollars. Maybe so. Anything was possible.
Nor did I have glamor to sell. I was the oldest and least celebrated of all the Watergate coconspirators. What made me so uninteresting, I suppose, was that I had so little power and wealth to lose. Other coconspirators had taken belly-whoppers from the tops of church steeples, so to speak. When I was arrested, I was a man sitting on a three- legged stool in the bottom of a well. All they could do to me was to saw off the legs of my little stool.
Not even I cared. My wife had died two weeks before they took me away, and my son no longer spoke to me. Still —they had to put handcuffs on me. It was the custom.
“Your name?” the police sergeant who booked me had asked.
I was impudent with him. Why not? “Harry Houdini,” I replied.
A fighter plane leaped up from the tip of a nearby runway, tore the sky to shreds. It happened all the time. “At least I don’t smoke anymore,” I thought.
President Nixon himself commented one time on how much I smoked. It was soon after I came to work for him— in the spring of Nineteen-hundred and Seventy. I was summoned to an emergency meeting about the shooting to death of four antiwar protesters at Kent State University by members of the Ohio National Guard. There were about forty other people at the meeting. President Nixon was at the head of the huge oval table, and I was at the foot. This was the first time I had seen him in person since he was a mere congressman—twenty years before. Until now he had no wish to see his special advisor on youth affairs. As things turned out, he would never want to see me again.
Virgil Greathouse, the secretary of health, education, and welfare, and reputedly one of the President’s closest friends, was there. He would begin serving his prison term on the same day I completed mine. Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew was there. He would eventually plead nolo contendere to charges of accepting bribes and evading income taxes. Emil Larkin, the President’s most vindictive advisor and dreaded hatchet man, was there. He would eventually discover Jesus Christ as his personal Savior as the prosecutors were about to get him for obstruction of justice and perjury. Henry Kissinger was there. He had yet to recommend the carpet-bombing of Hanoi on Christmas Day. Richard M. Helms, head of the C.I.A., was there. He would later be reprimanded for lying under oath of Congress. H.R. Haldeman and John D. Ehrlichman and Charles W. Colson and John N. Mitchell, the attorney general, were there. They, too, would be jailbirds by and by.
I had been up all the previous night, drafting and redrafting my suggestions as to what the President might say about the Kent State tragedy. The guardsmen, I thought, should be pardoned at once, and then reprimanded, and then discharged for the good of the service. The President should then order an investigation of National Guard units everywhere, to discover if such civilians in soldiers’ costumes were in fact to be trusted with live ammunition when controlling unarmed crowds. The President should call the tragedy a tragedy, should reveal himself as having had his heart broken. He should declare a day or perhaps a week of national mourning, with flags flown at half-mast everywhere. And the mourning should not be just for those who died at Kent State, but for all Americans who had been killed or crippled in any way, directly or indirectly, by the Vietnam War. He would be more deeply resolved than ever, of course, to press the war to an honorable conclusion.
But I was never asked to speak, nor afterward could I interest anyone in the papers in my hand.
My presence was acknowledged only once, and then only as the butt of a joke by the President. I was so nervous as the meeting wore on that I soon had three cigarettes going all at once, and was in the process of lighting the fourth.
The President himself at last noticed the column of smoke rising from my place, and he stopped all business to stare at me. He had to ask Emil Larkin who I was.
He then gave that unhappy little smile that invariably signaled that he was about to engage in levity. That smile has always looked to me like a rosebud that had just been smashed by a hammer. The joke he made was the only genuinely witty comment I ever heard attributed to him. Perhaps that is my proper place in history—as the butt of the one good joke by Nixon.

“We will pause in our business,” he said, “while our special advisor on youth affairs gives us a demonstration of how to put out a campfire.”
There was laughter all around.

4
A DOOR in the prison dormitory below me opened and banged shut, and I supposed that Clyde Carter had come for me at last. But then the person began to sing “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot” as he clumped up the stairway, and I knew he was Emil Larkin, once President Nixon’s hatchet man. This was a big man, goggle-eyed and liver-lipped, who had been a middle linebacker for Michigan State at one time. He was a disbarred lawyer now, and he prayed all day long to what he believed to be Jesus Christ. Larkin had not been sent out on a work detail or assigned any housekeeping task, incidentally, because of what all his praying on hard prison floors had done to him. He was crippled in both legs with housemaid’s knee.
He paused at the top of the stairs, and there were tears in his eyes. “Oh, Brother Starbuck,” he said, “it hurt so bad and it hurt so good to climb those stairs.”
“I’m not surprised,” I said.
“Jesus said to me,” he went on, “‘You have one last chance to ask Brother Starbuck to pray with you, and you’ve got to forget the pain it will cost you to climb those stairs, because you know what? This time Brother Starbuck is going to bend those proud Harvard knees, and he’s going to pray with you.’”
“I’d hate to disappoint Him,” I said.
“Have you ever done anything else?” he said. “That’s all I used to do: disappoint Jesus every day.”
I do not mean to sketch this blubbering leviathan as a religious hypocrite, nor am I entitled to. He had so opened himself to the consolations of religion that he had become an imbecile. In my time at the White House I had feared him as much as my ancestors must have feared Ivan the Terrible, but now I could be as impudent as I liked with him. He was no more sensitive to slights and jokes at his expense than a village idiot.
May I say, further, that on this very day Emil Larkin puts his money where his mouth is. A wholly owned subsidiary of my division here at RAMJAC, Heartland House, a publisher of religious books in Cincinnati, Ohio, published Larkin’s autobiography, Brother, Won’t You Pray with Me?, six weeks ago. All of Larkin’s royalties, which could well come to half a million dollars or more, excluding motion-picture and paperback rights, are to go to the Salvation Army.
“Who told you where I was?” I asked him. I was sorry he had found me. I had hoped to get out of prison without his asking me to pray with him one last time.
“Clyde Carter,” he said.
This was the guard I had been waiting for, the third cousin to the President of the United States. “Where the heck is he?” I said.
Larkin said that the whole administration of the prison was in an uproar, because Virgil Greathouse, the former secretary of health, education, and welfare and one of the richest men in the country, had suddenly decided to begin serving his sentence immediately, without any further appeals, without any further delay. He was very probably the highest-ranking person any federal prison had ever been asked to contain.
I knew Greathouse mainly by sight—and of course by reputation. He was a famous tough guy, the founder and still majority stockholder in the public relations firm of Greathouse and Smiley, which specialized in putting the most favorable interpretations on the activities of Caribbean and Latin American dictatorships, of Bahamian gambling casinos, of Liberian and Panamanian tanker fleets, of several Central Intelligence Agency fronts around the world, of gangster-dominated unions such as the International Brotherhood of Abrasives and Adhesives Workers and the Amalgamated Fuel Handlers, of international conglomerates such as RAMJAC and Texas Fruit, and on and on.
He was bald. He was jowly. His forehead was wrinkled like a washboard. He had a cold pipe clamped in his teeth, even when he sat on a witness stand. I got close enough to him one time to discover that he made music on that pipe. It was like the twittering of birds. He entered Harvard six years after I graduated, so we never met there. We made eye-contact only once at the White House—at the meeting where I made a fool of myself by lighting so many

cigarettes. I was just a little mouse from the White House pantry, as far as he was concerned. He spoke to me only once, and that was after we were both arrested. We came together accidentally in a courthouse corridor, where we were facing separate arraignments. He found out who I was and evidently thought I might have something on him, which I did not. So he put his face close to mine, his eyes twinkling, his pipe in his teeth, and he made me this unforgettable promise: “You say anything about me, Buster, and when you get out of jail you’ll be lucky to get a job cleaning toilets in a whorehouse in Port Said.”
It was after he said that, that I heard the birdcalls from his pipe.
Greathouse was a Quaker, by the way—and so was Richard M. Nixon, of course. This was surely a special bond between them, one of the things that made them best of friends for a while.
Emil Larkin was a Presbyterian.
I myself was nothing. My father had been secretly baptized a Roman Catholic in Poland, a religion that was suppressed at the time. He grew up to be an agnostic. My mother was baptized a Greek Orthodox in Lithuania, but became a Roman Catholic in Cleveland. Father would never go to church with her. I myself was baptized a Roman Catholic, but aspired to my father’s indifference, and quit going to church when I was twelve. When I applied for admission to Harvard, old Mr. McCone, a Baptist, told me to classify myself as a Congregationalist, which I did.
My son is an active Unitarian, I hear. His wife told me that she was a Methodist, but that she sang in an Episcopal Church every Sunday for pay. Why not?
And on and on.
Emil Larkin, the Presbyterian, and Virgil Greathouse, the Quaker, had been thick as thieves back in the good old days. They had not only dominated the burglaries and the illegal wiretaps and the harassment of enemies by the Internal Revenue Service and so on, but the prayer breakfasts, as well. So I asked Larkin now how he felt about the reunion in prospect.
“Virgil Greathouse is no more and no less my brother than you or any other man,” he said. “I will try to save him from hell, just as I am now trying to save you from hell.” He then quoted the harrowing thing that Jesus, according to Saint Matthew, had promised to say in the Person of God to sinners on Judgment Day.
This is it: “Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels.”
These words appalled me then, and they appall me now. They are surely the inspiration for the notorious cruelty of Christians.
“Jesus may have said that,” I told Larkin, “but it is so unlike most of what else He said that I have to conclude that He was slightly crazy that day.”
Larkin stepped back and he cocked his head in mock admiration. “I have seen some rough-tough babies in my time,” he said, “but you really take the prize. You’ve turned every friend you ever had against you, with all your flip-flops through the years, and now you insult that last Person who still might be willing to help you, who is Jesus Christ.”
I said nothing. I wished he would go away.
“Name me one friend you’ve got left,” he said.
I thought to myself that Dr. Ben Shapiro, my best man, would have remained my friend, no matter what—might have come for me there at prison in his car and taken me to his home. But that was sentimental speculation on my part. He had gone to Israel long ago and gotten himself killed in the Six Day War. I had heard that there was a primary school named in his honor in Tel Aviv.
“Name One,” Emil Larkin persisted.
“Bob Fender,” I said. This was the only lifer in the prison, the only American to have been convicted of treason during the Korean War. He was Doctor Fender, since he held a degree in veterinary science. He was the chief clerk in the supply room where I would soon be given my civilian clothes. There was always music in the supply room, for Fender was allowed to play records of the French chanteuse, Edith Piaf, all day long. He was a science-fiction writer of some note, publishing many stories a year under various pseudonyms, including “Frank X. Barlow” and “Kilgore Trout.”
“Bob Fender is everybody’s friend and nobody’s friend,” said Larkin.
“Clyde Carter is my friend,” I said.
“I am talking about people on the outside,” said Larkin. “Who’s waiting outside to help you? Nobody. Not even your own son.”

“We’ll see,” I said.
“You’re going to New York?” he said.
“Yes,” I said.
“Why New York?” he said.
“It’s famous for its hospitality to friendless, penniless immigrants who wish to become millionaires,” I said.
“You’re going to ask your son for help, even though he’s never even written you the whole time you’ve been here?” he said. He was the mail clerk for my building, so he knew all about my mail.
“If he ever finds out I’m in the same city with him, it will be purely by accident,” I said. The last words Walter had ever said to me were at his mother’s burial in a small Jewish cemetery in Chevy Chase. That she should be buried in such a place and in such company was entirely my idea—the idea of an old man suddenly all alone. Ruth would have said, correctly, that it was a crazy thing to do.
She was buried in a plain pine box that cost one hundred and fifty-six dollars. Atop that box I placed a bough, broken not cut, from our flowering crab apple tree.
A rabbi prayed over her in Hebrew, a language she had never heard, although she must have had endless opportunities to learn it in the concentration camp.
Our son said this to me, before showing his back to me and the open pit and hastening to a waiting taxicab: “I pity you, but I can never love you. As far as I am concerned, you killed this poor woman. I can’t think of you anymore as a father or as any sort of relative. I never want to see or hear of you again.”
Strong stuff.
My prison daydream of New York City did suppose, however, that there were still old acquaintances, although I could not name them, who might help me to get a job. It is a hard daydream to let go of—that one has friends. Those who would have remained my friends, if life had gone a little bit better for me, would have been mainly in New York. I imagined that, if I were to prowl midtown Manhattan day after day, from the theater district on the west to the United Nations on the east, and from the Public Library on the south to the Plaza Hotel on the north, and past all the foundations and publishing houses and bookstores and clothiers for gentlemen and clubs for gentlemen and expensive hotels and restaurants in between, I would surely meet somebody who knew me, who remembered what a good man I used to be, who did not especially despise me—who would use his influence to get me a job tending bar somewhere.
I would plead with him shamelessly, and rub his nose in my Doctor of Mixology degree.
If I saw my son coming, so went the daydream, I would show him my back until he was safely by.
“Well,” said Larkin, “Jesus tells me not to give up on anybody, but I’m close to giving up on you. You’re just going to sit there, staring straight ahead, no matter what I say.
“Afraid so,” I said.
“I never saw anybody more determined to be a geek than you are,” he said.
A geek, of course, is a man who lies in a cage on a bed of filthy straw in a carnival freak-show and bites the heads off live chickens and makes subhuman noises, and is billed as having been raised by wild animals in the jungles of Borneo. He has sunk as low as a human being can sink in the American social order, except for his final resting place in a potter’s field.
Now Larkin, frustrated, let some of his old maliciousness show. “That’s what Chuck Colson called you in the White House: ‘The Geek,’” he said.
“I’m sure,” I said.
“Nixon never respected you,” he said. “He just felt sorry for you. That’s why he gave you the job.”
“I know,” I said.
“You didn’t even have to come to work,” he said. “I know,” I said.
“That’s why we gave you the office without any windows and without anybody else around—so you’d catch on that you didn’t even have to come to work.”
“I tried to be of use anyway,” I said. “I hope your Jesus can forgive me for that.”
“If you’re just going to make fun of Jesus, maybe you better not talk about Him at all,” he said. “Fine,” I said. “You brought Him up.”
“Do you know when you started to be a geek?” he said.

I knew exactly when the downward dive of my life began, when my wings were broken forever, when I realized that I would never soar again. That event was the most painful subject imaginable to me. I could not bear to think about it yet again, so I said to Larkin, looking him in the eye at last, “In the name of mercy, please leave this poor old man alone.”
He was elated. “By golly—I finally got through the thick Harvard hide of Walter F. Starbuck,” he said. “I touched a nerve, didn’t I?”
“You touched a nerve,” I said.
“Now we’re getting somewhere,” he said.
“I hope not,” I said, and I stared at the wall again.
“I was just a little boy in kneepants in Petoskey, Michigan, when I first heard your voice,” he said.
“I’m sure,” I said.
“It was on the radio. My father made me and my little sister sit by the radio and listen hard. ‘You listen hard,’ he said. ‘You’re hearing history made.’”
The year would have been Nineteen-hundred and Forty-nine. I had just returned to Washington with my little human family. We had just moved into our brick bungalow in Chevy Chase, Maryland, with its flowering crab apple tree. It was autumn. There were tart little apples on the tree. My wife Ruth was about to make jelly out of them, as she would do every year. Where was my voice coming from, that it should have been heard by little Emil Larkin in Petoskey? From a committee room in the House of Representatives. With a brutal bouquet of radio microphones before me I was being questioned, principally by a young congressman from California named Richard M. Nixon, about my previous associations with communists, and about my present loyalty to the United States.
Nineteen-hundred and Forty-nine: Will young people of today doubt me if I aver with a straight face that congressional committees convened in treetops then, since saber-toothed tigers still dominated the ground? No. Winston Churchill was still alive. Joseph Stalin was still alive. Think of that. Harry S. Truman was President. And the Defense Department had told me, a former communist, to form and head a task force of scientists and military men. Its mission was to propose tactics for ground forces when, as seemed inevitable, small nuclear weapons became available on the battlefield.
The committee wished to know, and especially Mr. Nixon, if a man with my political past was to be trusted with such a sensitive job. Might I hand over our tactical schemes to the Soviet Union? Might I rig the schemes to make them impractical, so that in any battle with the Soviet Union the Soviet Union would surely win?
“You know what I heard on that radio?” said Emil Larkin.
“No,” I said—ever so emptily.
“I heard a man do the one thing nobody can ever forgive him for—and I don’t care what their politics are. I heard him do the one thing he can’t ever forgive himself for, and that was to betray his best friend.”
I could not smile then at his description of what he thought he had heard, and I cannot smile at it now—but it was ludicrous all the same. It was an impossibly chowder-headed abridgement of congressional hearings and civil suits and finally a criminal trial, which were spread out over two years. As a little boy listening to the radio, he could only have heard a lot of tedious talk, not much more interesting than static. It was only as a grownup, with a set of ethics based on cowboy movies, that Larkin could have decided that he had heard with utmost clarity the betrayal of a man by his best friend.
“Leland Clewes was never my best friend,” I said. This was the name of the man who was ruined by my testimony, and for a while there our last names would be paired in conversations: “Starbuck and Clewes”—like “Gilbert and Sullivan;” like “Sacco and Vanzetti;” like “Laurel and Hardy;” like “Leopold and Loeb.”
I don’t hear much about us anymore.
Clewes was a Yale man—my age. We first met at Oxford, where I was the coxswain and he was the bowman of a winning crew at Henley. I was short. He was tall. I am still short. He is still tall. We went to work for the Department of Agriculture at the same time and were assigned adjacent cubicles. We played tennis every Sunday morning, when the weather was clement. Those were our salad days, when we were green in judgment.
For a while there we were joint owners of a secondhand Ford Phaeton and often went out together with our girls. Phaeton was the son of Helios, the sun. He borrowed his father’s flaming chariot one day and drove it so irresponsibly that parts of northern Africa were turned into deserts. In order to keep the whole planet from being desolated, Zeus had to kill him with a thunderbolt. “Good for Zeus,” I say. What choice did he have?

But my friendship with Clewes was never deep and it ended when he took a girl away from me and married her. She was a member of a fine old New England family, which owned the Wyatt Clock Company in Brockton, Massachusetts, among other things. Her brother was my roommate at Harvard in my freshman year, which was how I got to know her. She was one of the four women I have ever truly loved. Sarah Wyatt was her maiden name.
When I accidentally ruined him, Leland Clewes and I had not exchanged any sort of greeting for ten years or more. He and his Sarah had a child, a daughter, three years older than mine. He had become the brightest meteor in the State Department, and it was widely conceded that he would be secretary of state some day, and maybe even president. No one in Washington was better-looking and more charming than Leland Clewes.
I ruined him in this way: Under oath, and in reply to a question by Congressman Nixon, I named a number of men who were known to have been communists during the Great Depression, but who had proved themselves to be outstanding patriots during World War Two. On that roll of honor I included the name of Leland Clewes. No particular comment was made about this at the time. It was only when I got home late that afternoon that I learned from my wife, who had been listening to me and then to every news program she could find on the radio, that Leland Clewes had never been connected with communism in any way before.
By the time Ruth put on supper—and we had to eat off a packing case since the bungalow wasn’t fully furnished yet—the radio was able to give us Leland Clewes’s reply. He wished to appear before Congress at the earliest opportunity, in order to swear under oath that he had never been a communist, had never sympathized with any communist cause. His boss, the secretary of state, another Yale man, was quoted as saying that Leland Clewes was the most patriotic American he had ever known, and that he had proved his loyalty beyond question in negotiations with representatives of the Soviet Union. According to him, Leland Clewes had bested the communists again and again. He suggested that I might still be a communist, and that I might have been given the job of ruining Leland Clewes by my masters.
Two horrible years later Leland Clewes was convicted on six counts of perjury. He became one of the first prisoners to serve his sentence in the then new Federal Minimum Security Adult Correctional Facility on the edge of Finletter Air Force Base—thirty-five miles from Atlanta, Georgia.
Small world.

5
ALMOST TWENTY YEARS later Richard M. Nixon, having become President of the United States, would suddenly wonder what had become of me. He would almost certainly never have become President, of course, if he had not become a national figure as the discoverer and hounder of the mendacious Leland Clewes. His emissaries would find me, as I say, helping my wife with her decorating business, which she ran out of our little brick bungalow in Chevy Chase, Maryland.
Through them, he would offer me a job.
How did I feel about it? Proud and useful. Richard. M. Nixon wasn’t merely Richard M. Nixon, after all. He was also the President of the United States of America, a nation I ached to serve again. Should I have refused—on the grounds that America wasn’t really my kind of America just then?
Should I have persisted, as a point of honor, in being to all practical purposes a basket case in Chevy Chase instead?
No.
And now Clyde Carter, the prison guard I had been waiting for so long on my cot, came to get me at last. Emil Larkin had by then given up on me and limped away.
“I’m sure sorry, Walter,” said Clyde.
“Perfectly all right,” I told him. “I’m in no hurry to go anywhere, and there are buses every thirty minutes.” Since no one was coming to meet me, I would have to ride an Air Force bus to Atlanta. I would have to stand all the way, I thought, since the buses were always jammed long before they reached the prison stop.
Clyde knew about my son’s indifference to my sufferings. Everybody in the prison knew. They also knew he was a book reviewer. Half the inmates, it seemed, were writing memoirs or spy novels or romans à clef, or what have you, so there was a lot of talk about book reviewing, and especially in The New York Times.
And Clyde said to me, “Maybe I ain’t supposed to say this, but that son of yours ought to be shot for not coming down after his daddy.”
“It’s all right,” I said.
“That’s what you say about everything,” Clyde complained. “No matter what it is, you say, ‘It’s all right.’” “It usually is,” I said.
“Them was the last words of Caryl Chessman,” he said. “I guess they’ll be your last words, too.”
Caryl Chessman was a convicted kidnapper and rapist, but not a murderer, who spent twelve years on death row in California. He made all his own appeals for stays of execution, and he learned four languages and wrote two bestselling books before he was put into an airtight tank with windows in it, and made to breathe cyanide gas.
And his last words were indeed, as Clyde said, “It’s all right.”
“Well now, listen,” said Clyde. “When you get yourself a bartending job up there in New York, I just know you’re going to wind up owning that bar inside of two years’ time.” This was kindness on his part, and not genuine optimism. Clyde was trying to help me be brave. “And after you’ve got the most popular bar in New York,” he went on, “I just hope you’ll remember Clyde and maybe send for him. I can not only tend bar—I can also fix your air conditioning. By that time I’ll be able to fix your locks, too.”
I knew he had been considering enrolling in The Illinois Institute of Instruction course in locksmithing. Now, apparently, he had taken the plunge. “So you took the plunge,” I said.
“I took the plunge,” he said. “Got my first lesson today.”
The prison was a hollow square of conventional, two-story military barracks. Clyde and I were crossing the vast parade ground at its center. I with my bedding in my arms. This was where young infantrymen, the glory of their nation, had performed at one time, demonstrating their eagerness to do or die. Now I, too, I thought, had served my

country in uniform, had at every moment for two years done precisely what my country had asked me to do. It had asked me to suffer. It had not asked me to die.
There were faces at some of the windows—feeble old felons with bad hearts, bad lungs, bad livers, what have you. But there was only one other figure on the parade ground itself. He was dragging a large canvas trash bag after himself as he picked up papers with a spike at the end of a long stick. He was small and old, like me. When he saw us coming, he positioned himself between us and the Administration Building, and he pointed his spike at me, indicating that he had something very important to say to me. He was Dr. Carlo di Sanza, who held a Doctorate in law from the University of Naples. He was a naturalized American citizen and was serving his second term for using the mails to promote a Ponzi scheme. He was ferociously patriotic.
“You are going home?” he said.
“Yes,” I said.
“Don’t ever forget one thing,” he said. “No matter what this country does to you, it is still the greatest country in the world. Can you remember that?”
“Yes, sir—I think I can,” I said.
“You were a fool to have been a communist,” he said.
“That was a long time ago,” I said.
“There are no opportunities in a communist country,” he said. “Why would you want to live in a country with no opportunities?”
“It was a youthful mistake, sir,” I said.
“In America I have been a millionaire two times,” he said, “and I will be a millionaire again.”
“I’m sure of it,” I said, and I was. He would simply start up his third Ponzi scheme—consisting, as before, of offering fools enormous rates of interest for the use of their money. As before, he would use most of the money to buy himself mansions and Rolls-Royces and speedboats and so on, but returning part of it as the high interest he had promised. More and more people would come to him, having heard of him from gloatingly satisfied recipients of his interest checks, and he would use their money to write more interest checks—and on and on.
I am now convinced that Dr. di Sanza’s greatest strength was his utter stupidity. He was such a successful swindler because he himself could not, even after two convictions, understand what was inevitably castastrophic about a Ponzi scheme.
“I have made many people happy and rich,” he said. “Have you done that?”
“No, sir—not yet,” I said. “But it’s never too late to try.”
I am now moved to suppose, with my primitive understanding of economics, that every successful government is of necessity a Ponzi scheme. It accepts enormous loans that can never be repaid. How else am I to explain to my polyglot grandchildren what the United States was like in the nineteen-thirties, when its owners and politicians could not find ways for so many of its people to earn even the most basic necessities, like food and clothes and fuel. It was pure hell to get shoes!
And then suddenly, there were formerly poor people in officers’ clubs, beautifully costumed and ordering filets mignon and champagne. There were formerly poor people in enlisted men’s clubs, serviceably costumed and clad and ordering hamburgers and beer. A man who two years before had patched the holes in his shoes with cardboard suddenly had a Jeep or a truck or an airplane or a boat, and unlimited supplies of fuel and ammunition. He was given glasses and bridgework, if he needed them, and he was immunized against every imaginable disease. No matter where he was on the planet, a way was found to get hot turkey and cranberry sauce to him on Thanksgiving and Christmas.
What had happened?
What could have happened but a Ponzi scheme?
When Dr. Carlo di Sanza stepped aside and let Clyde and me go on, Clyde began to curse himself for his own lack of large-scale vision. “Bartender, air-conditioner repairman, locksmith—prison guard,” he said. “What’s the matter with me that I think so small?”
He spoke of his long association with white-collar criminals, and he told me one conclusion he had drawn: “Successful folks in this country never think about little things.”
“Successful?” I said incredulously. “You’re talking about convicted felons, for heaven’s sake!”
“Oh, sure,” he said, “but most of them have plenty of money still stashed away somewheres. Even if they don’t,

they know how to get plenty more. Everybody does just fine when they get out of here.”
“Remember me as a striking exception,” I said. “My wife had to support me for most of my married life.”
“You had a million dollars one time,” he said. “I’ll never see a million dollars, if I live a million years.” He was speaking of the corpus delecti of my Watergate crime, which was an old-fashioned steamer trunk containing one million dollars in unmarked and circulated twenty-dollar bills. It was an illegal campaign contribution. It became necessary to hide it when the contents of all White House safes were to be examined by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and men from the Office of the Special Prosecutor. My obscure office in the subbasement was selected as the most promising hiding place. I acquiesced.
Somewhere in there my wife died.
And then the trunk was found. The police came for me. I knew the people who brought the trunk to my office, and under whose orders they were operating. They were all high-ranking people, some of them laboring like common stevedores. I would not tell the court or my own lawyers or anyone who they were. Thus did I go to prison for a while.
I had learned this much from my mutual disaster with Leland Clewes: It was sickening to send another poor fool to prison. There was nothing quite like sworn testimony to make life look trivial and mean ever after.
Also: My wife had just died. I could not care what happened next. I was a zombie.
Even now I will not name the malefactors with the trunk. It does not matter.
I cannot, however, withhold from American history what one of the malefactors said after the trunk was set down in my office. This was it: “Whose dumb fucking idea was it to bring this shit to the White House?”
“People like you,” said Clyde Carter, “find yourselves around millions of dollars all the time. If I’d of went to Harvard, maybe I would, too.”
We were hearing music now. We were nearing the supply room, and it was coming from a phonograph in there. Edith Piaf was singing “Non, je ne regrette rien.” This means, of course, “No, I am not sorry about anything.”
The song ended just as Clyde and I entered the supply room, so that Dr. Robert Fender, the supply clerk and lifer, could tell us passionately how much he agreed with the song. “Non!” he said, his teeth gnashing, his eyes blazing. “Je ne regrette rien! Rien!”
This was, as I have already said, a veterinarian and the only American to have been convicted of treason during the Korean War. He could have been shot for what he did, since he was then a first lieutenant in the United States Army, serving in Japan and inspecting meat on its way to the troops in Korea. As a gesture of mercy, his court- martial sentenced him to life imprisonment with no chance of parole.
This American traitor bore a strong resemblance to a great American hero, Charles Augustus Lindbergh. He was tall and big-boned. He had Scandinavian blood. He was a farm boy. He was fairly fluent in a weepy sort of French from having listened to Edith Piaf for so long. He had actually been almost nowhere outside of prison but Ames, Iowa, and Osaka, Japan. He was so shy with women, he told me one time, that he was still a virgin when he reached Osaka. And then he fell crashingly in love with a female nightclub singer who passed herself off as Japanese and sang word-for-word imitations of Edith Piaf records. She was also a spy for North Korea.
“My dear friend, my dear Walter Starbuck,” he said, “and how has this day gone for you so far?”
So I told him about sitting on the cot and having the same song run through my head again and again, about Sally in the garden, sifting cinders.
He laughed. He has since put me and the incident into a science fiction story of his, which I am proud to say is appearing this very month in Playboy, a RAMJAC magazine. The author is ostensibly Frank X. Barlow. The story is about a former judge on the plane Vicuna, two and a half galaxies away from. Earth, who has had to leave his body behind and whose soul goes flying through space, looking for a habitable planet and a new body to occupy. He finds that the universe is virtually lifeless, but he comes at last to Earth and makes his first landing in the enlisted men’s parking lot of Finletter Air Force Base—thirty-five miles from Atlanta, Georgia. He can enter any body he likes through its ear, and ride around inside. He wants a body so he can have some sort of social life. A soul without a body, according to the story, can’t have any social life—because nobody can see it, and it can’t touch anybody or make any noise.
The judge thinks he can leave a body again, any time he finds it or its destiny uncongenial. Little does he dream that the chemistries of Earthlings and Vicunians are such that, once he enters a body, he is going to be stuck inside forever. The story includes a little essay on glues previously known on Earth, and says that the strongest of these was the one that sticks mature barnacles to boulders or boats or pilings, or whatever.

“When they are very young,” Dr. Fender writes in the persona of Frank X. Barlow, “barnacles can drift or creep whence-so-ever they hanker, anywhere in the seven seas and the brackish estuaries thereof. Their upper bodies are encased in cone-shaped armor. Their little tootsies dangle from the cones like clappers from dinnerbells.
“But there comes a time for every barnacle, at childhood’s end, when the rim of its cone secretes a glue that will stick forever to whatever it happens to touch next. So it is no casual thing on Earth to say to a pubescent barnacle or to a homeless soul from Vicuna, ‘Sit thee doon, sit thee doon.’”
The judge from Vicuna in the story tells us that the way the people on his native planet said “hello” and “goodbye,” and “please” and “thank you,” too. It was this: “ting-a-ling.” He says that back on Vicuna the people could don and doff their bodies as easily as Earthlings could change their clothing. When they were outside their bodies, they were weightless, transparent, silent awarenesses and sensibilities. They had no musical instruments on Vicuna, he said, since the people themselves were music when they floated around without their bodies. Clarinets and harps and pianos and so on would have been redundant, would have been machinery for making clumsy counterfeits of airborne souls.
But they ran out of time on Vicuna, he says. The tragedy of the planet was that its scientists found ways to extract time from topsoil and the oceans and the atmosphere—to heat their homes and power their speedboats and fertilize their crops with it; to eat it; to make cloches out of it; and so on. They served time at every meal, fed it to household pets, just to demonstrate how rich and clever they were. They allowed great gobbets of it to putrefy to oblivion in their overflowing garbage cans.
“On Vicuna,” says the judge, “we lived as though there were no tomorrow.”
The patriotic bonfires of time were the worst, he says. When he was an infant, his parents held him up to coo and gurgle with delight as a million years of future were put to the torch in honor of the birthday of the queen. But by the time he was fifty, only a few weeks of future remained. Great rips in reality were appearing everywhere. People could walk through walls. His own speedboat became nothing more than a steering wheel. Holes appeared in vacant lots where children were playing, and the children fell in.
So all the Vicunians had to get out of their bodies and sail out into space without further ado. “Ting-a-ling,” they said to Vicuna.
“Chronological anomalies and gravitational thunderstorms and magnetic whirlpools tore the Vicunian families apart in space,” the story goes on, “scattered them far and wide.” The judge manages to stay with his formerly beautiful daughter for a while. She isn’t beautiful anymore, of course, because she no longer has a body. She finally loses heart, because every planet or moon they come to is so lifeless. Her father, having no way to restrain her, watches helplessly as she enters a crack in a rock and becomes its soul. Ironically, she does this on the moon of Earth, with that most teeming of all planets only two hundred and thirty-nine thousand miles away!
Before he actually lands at the Air Force base, though, he falls in with a flock of turkey buzzards. He wheels and soars with them and almost enters the ear of one. For all he knows about the social situation on Earth, these carrion eaters may be members of the ruling class.
He decides that lives led at the center of the Air Force base are too busy, too unreflective for him, so he goes up in the air again and spots a much more quiet cluster of buildings, which he thinks may be a meditation center for philosophers. He has no way of recognizing the place as a minimum security prison for white-collar criminals, since there were no such institutions back on Vicuna.
Back on Vicuna, he says, convicted white-collar criminals, defilers of trustingness, had their ears plugged up, so their souls couldn’t get out. Then their bodies were put into artificial ponds filled with excrement—up to their necks. Then deputy sheriffs drove high-powered speedboats at their heads.
The judge says he himself sentenced hundreds of people to this particular punishment and that the felons invariably argued that they had not broken the law, but merely violated its spirit, perhaps, just the least little bit. Before he condemned them, he would put a sort of chamberpot over his head, to make his words more resonant and awesome, and he would pronounce this formula: “Boys, you didn’t just get the spirit of the law. You got its body and soul this time.”
And, according to the judge, you could hear the deputies warming up their speedboats on the pond outside the courthouse: “vrooom-ah, vrooom-a, va-va-va-roooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooom!”

6
THE JUDGE in Dr. Bob Fender’s story tries to guess which of the philosophers in the meditation center is the wisest and most contented. He decides that it is a little old man sitting on a cot in a second-story dormitory. Every so often that little old man is so delighted with his thoughts, evidently, that he claps three times.
So the judge flies into the ear of that little old man and immediately sticks to him forever, sticks to him, according to the story ... as tightly as Formica to an epoxy-coated countertop.” And what does he hear in that little old man’s head but this:
Sally in the garden, Sifting cinders,
Lifted up her leg
And farted like a man ...
And so on.
It is quite an interesting story. There is a rescue of the daughter who has become the soul of a moon rock, and so on. But the true story of how its author came to commit treason in Osaka is a match for it, in my opinion, any day. Bob Fender fell in love with the North Korean agent, the Edith Piaf imitator, from a distance of about twenty feet, in a nightclub frequented by American officers. He never dared close the distance or to send her flowers or a note, but night after night he mooned at her from the same table. He was always alone and usually the biggest man by far in the club, so the singer, whose stage name was simply “Izumi,” asked some of the other Americans who and what Fender was.
He was a virgin meat inspector, but his fellow officers had fun telling Izumi that he was so solitary and gloomy all the time because his work was so secret and important. They said he was in command of an elite unit that guarded atomic bombs. If she asked him about it, they said, he would claim to be a meat inspector.
So Izumi went to work on him. She sat down at his table without being asked. She reached inside his shirt and tickled his nipples and all that. She told him that she liked big, silent men, and that all other Americans talked too much. She begged him to take her home with him after the club closed at two o’clock that morning. She wanted to find out where the atomic bombs were, of course. Actually, there weren’t any atomic bombs in Japan. They were on aircraft carriers and on Okinawa, and so on. For the rest of the evening she sang all her songs directly to him and to nobody else. He nearly fainted from joy and embarrassment. He had a Jeep outside.
When she got into his Jeep at two o’clock in the morning, she said she not only wanted to see where her big American lived, but where he worked. He told her that would be easy, since he lived and worked at the same place. He took her down to a new United States Army Quartermaster Corps dock in Osaka, which had a big shed running down the middle of it. At one end were some offices. At the other end was a two-room apartment for whoever the resident veterinarian happened to be. In between were great, refrigerated meat lockers, filled with carcasses Fender had inspected or would inspect. There was a fence on the land side and a guard at the gate; but as came out at the court-martial, discipline was lax. All the guard thought he had to watch out for was people trying to sneak out with sides of beef.
So the guard, who would later be acquitted by a court-martial, simply waved Dr. Fender’s Jeep inside. He did not notice that there was an unauthorized woman lying on the floor.
Izumi asked to look inside some of the meat lockers, which Bob was more than glad to show her. By the time they reached his apartment, which was at the outer end of the dock, she realized that he really was nothing but a meat inspector.
“But she was so nice,” Fender told me one time, “and I was so nice, if I may say so, that she stayed for the night, anyway. I was scared to death, naturally, since I had never made love before. But then I said to myself, Just wait a minute. Just calm down. You have always been good with every kind of animal, practically from the minute you were born. Just keep one thing in mind: You’ve got another nice little animal here.’”
As came out at Fender’s court-martial: He and other members of the Army Veterinary Corps looked like soldiers,

but they had not been trained to think like soldiers. It seemed unnecessary, since all they did anymore was inspect meat. The last veterinarian to be involved in any sort of fighting, it turned out, died at the Little Bighorn, at Custer’s Last Stand. Also: There was a tendency on the part of the Army to coddle veterinarians, since they were so hard to recruit. They could make fortunes on the outside—especially in cities, looking after peoples’ pets. This was why they gave Fender such a pleasant, private apartment on the end of a dock. He inspected meat. As long as he did that, nobody was going to think of inspecting him.
“If they had inspected my apartment,” he told me, “they would not have found a speck of dust anywhere.” They would also have found, according to him, “one of the best private collections of Japanese pottery and fabrics in Osaka.” He had gone berserk for the subtlety and delicacy of all things Japanese. This art mania was surely an apology, among other things, for his own huge and—to him—ugly useless hands and feet and all.
“Izumi kept looking back and forth between me and the beautiful things on my shelves and walls—in my cupboards, in my drawers,” he told me one time. “If you could have seen her expressions change when she did that,” he said, “you would have to agree with me when I say, even though it’s a very conceited thing for me to say: She fell in love with me.”
He made breakfast the next morning, all with Japanese utensils, although it was an American breakfast—bacon and eggs. She stayed curled up in bed while he cooked. She reminded him of the young deer, a doe he had raised when a boy. It was not a new thought. He had been taking care of that doe all night. He turned on his radio, which was tuned to the Armed Forces Network. He hoped for music. He got news instead. The biggest news was that a North Korean spy ring had been rounded up in Osaka in the wee hours of the morning. Their radio transmitter had been found. Only one member of the ring was still being hunted, and that was the woman who called herself “Izumi.”
Fender, by his own account, had “... entered an alternate universe by then.” He felt so much more at home in the new one than in the old one, simply because he was paired now with a woman, that he wasn’t going to return to the old one ever again. What Izumi told him about her loyalty to the communist cause did not sound like enemy talk to him. “It was just common sense on the part of a good person from an alternate universe,” he said.
So he hid her and fed her for eleven days, being careful not to neglect his duties. On the twelfth day he was so disoriented and innocent as to ask a sailor from a ship from New Zealand, which was unloading beef, if for a thousand dollars he would take a young woman on board and away from Japan. The sailor reported this to his captain, who passed it on to American authorities. Fender and Izumi were promptly arrested, separated, and would never see each other again.
Fender was never able to find out what became of her. She vanished. The most believable rumor was that she had been turned over illegally to South Korean agents, who took her to Seoul—where she was shot without trial.
Fender regretted nothing he had done.
Now he was holding up the pants of my civilian suit, a gray, pinstripe Brooks Brothers suit, for me to see. He asked me if I remembered the large cigarette hole there had been in the crotch.
“Yes,” I said.
“Find it,” he said.
I could not. Nor could I find any other holes in the suit. At his own expense he had sent the suit to an invisible mender in Atlanta. “That, dear Walter,” he said, “is my going-away present to you.”
Almost everybody, I knew, got a going-away present from Fender. He had little else to do with all the money he made from his science-fiction tales. But the mending of my suit was by far the most personal and thoughtful one I had ever heard of. I choked up. I could have cried. I told him so.
Before he could make a reply, there were shouts and the thunder of scampering feet in offices in the front of the building—offices whose windows faced the four-lane divided highway outside. It was believed that Virgil Greathouse, the former secretary of health, education, and welfare, had arrived out front. It was a false alarm.
Clyde Carter and Dr. Fender ran out into the reception area, so that they could see, too. There were no locked doors anywhere in the prison. Fender could have kept right on running outside, if he wanted to. Clyde didn’t have a gun, and neither did any of the other guards. If Fender had made a break for it, maybe somebody would have tried to tackle him; but I doubt it. It would have been the first attempted escape from the prison in its twenty-six-year history, and nobody would have had any clear idea as to what to do.
I was incurious about the arrival of Virgil Greathouse. His arrival, like the arrival of any new prisoner, would be a public execution of sorts. I did not want to watch him or anybody become less than a man. So I was all alone in the

supply room. I was grateful for the accident of privacy. I took advantage of it. I performed what was perhaps the most obscenely intimate physical act of my life. I gave birth to a broken, querulous little old man by doing this: by putting on my civilian clothes.
There were white broadcloth underpants and calf-length, ribbed black socks from the Tally-ho Gentleman’s Shop in Chevy Chase. There was a white Arrow shirt from Garfinckel’s Department Store in Washington. There was the Brooks Brothers suit from New York City, and a regimental-stripe tie and black shoes from there, too. The laces on both shoes were broken and mended with square knots. Fender obviously had not taken a close look at them, or there would have been new laces in those shoes.
The necktie was the most antique item. I had actually worn it during the Second World War. Imagine that. An Englishman I was working with on medical supply schemes for the D-Day landings told me that the tie identified me as an officer in the Royal Welsh Fusiliers.
“You were wiped out in the Second Battle of the Somme in the First World War,” he said, “and now, in this show, you’ve been wiped out again at E1 Alamein. You might say, ‘Not the luckiest regiment in the world.’”
The stripe scheme is this: A broad band of pale blue is bordered by a narrow band of forest-green above and orange below. I am wearing that tie on this very day, as I sit here in my office in the Down Home Records Division of the RAMJAC Corporation.
When Clyde Carter and Dr. Fender returned to the supply room, I was a civilian again. I felt as dazed and shy and tremble-legged as any other newborn creature. I did not yet know what I looked like. There was one full-length mirror in the supply room, but its face was turned to the wall. Fender always turned it to the wall when a new arrival was expected. This was another example of Fender’s delicacy. The new arrival, if he did not wish to, did not have to see at once how he had been transformed by a prison uniform.
Clyde’s and Fender’s faces, however, were mirrors enough to tell me that I was something less than a gay boulevardier on the order of, say, the late Maurice Chevalier. They were quick to cover their pity with horseplay; but not quick enough.
Fender pretended to be my valet in an embassy somewhere. “Good morning, Mr. Ambassador. Another crisp and bright day,” he said. “The queen is expecting you for lunch at one.”
Clyde said that it sure was easy to spot a Harvard man, that they all had that certain something. But neither friend made a move to turn the mirror around, so I did it myself.
Here is who I saw reflected: a scrawny old janitor of Slavic extraction. He was unused to wearing a suit and a tie. His shirt collar much too large for him, and so was his suit, which fit him like a circus tent. He looked unhappy—on his way to a relative’s funeral, perhaps. At no point was there any harmony between himself and the suit. He may have found his clothes in a rich man’s ash can.
Peace.

7
I SAT NOW on an unsheltered park bench by the highway in front of the prison. I was waiting for the bus. I had beside me a tan canvas-and-leather suitcase designed for Army officers. It had been my constant companion in Europe during my glory days. Draped over it was an old trenchcoat, also from my glory days. I was all alone. The bus was late. Every so often I would pat the pockets of my suitcoat, making sure that I had my release papers, my government voucher for a one-way, tourist-class flight from Atlanta to New York City, my money, and my Doctor of Mixology degree. The sun beat down on me.
I had three hundred and twelve dollars and eleven cents. Two hundred and fifty of that was in the form of a government check, which could not easily be stolen from me. It was all my own money. After all the meticulous adding and subtracting that had gone on relative to my assets since my arrest, that much, to the penny, was incontrovertibly mine: three hundred and twelve dollars and eleven cents.
So here I was going out into the Free Enterprise System again. Here I was cut loose from the protection and nurture of the federal government again.
The last time this had happened to me was in Nineteen-hundred and Fifty-three, two years after Leland Clewes went to prison for perjury. Dozens of other witnesses had been found to testify against him by then—and more damagingly, too. All I had ever accused him of was membership in the Communist Party before the war, which I would have thought was about as damning for a member of the Depression generation as having stood in a breadline. But others were willing to swear that Clewes had continued to be a communist throughout the war, and had passed secret information to agents of the Soviet Union. I was flabbergasted.
That was certainly news to me, and may not even have been true. The most I had wanted from Clewes was an admission that I had told the truth about something that really didn’t matter much. God knows I did not want to see him ruined and sent to jail. And the most I expected for myself was that I would be sorry for the rest of my life, would never feel quite right about myself ever again, because of what I had accidentally done to him. Otherwise, I thought, life could be expected to go on much as before.
True: I had been transferred to a less-sensitive job in the Defense Department, tabulating the likes and dislikes of soldiers of various major American races and religions, and from various educational and economic backgrounds, for various sorts of field rations, some of them new and experimental. Work of that sort, now done brainlessly and eyelessly and handlessly and at the speed of light by computers, was still being done largely by hand in those days. I and my staff now seem as archaic to me as Christian monks illuminating manuscripts with paintbrushes and gold leaf and quills.
And true: People who dealt with me at work, both inferiors and superiors, became more formal, more coldly correct, when dealing with me. They had no time anymore, seemingly, for jokes, for stories about the war. Every conversation was schnip-schnap! Then it was time to get back to work. I ascribed this at the time, and even told my poor wife that I admired it, to the spirit of the new, lean, keen, highly mobile and thoroughly professional Armed Forces we were shaping. They were to be a thunderbolt with which we could vaporize any new, would-be Hitler; anywhere in the world. No sooner had the people of a country lost their freedom, than the United States of America would arrive to give it back again.
And true: Ruth’s and my social life was somewhat less vivid than the one I had promised her in Nuremberg. I had projected for her a telephone in our home that would never stop ringing, with old comrades of mine on the other end. They would want to eat and drink and talk all night. They would be in the primes of their lives in government service, in their late thirties or early forties, like me—so able and experienced and diplomatic and clever, and at bottom as hard as nails, that they would be the real heads and the guts of their organizations, no matter where in the hierarchy they were supposed to be. I promised Ruth that they would be blowing in from big jobs in Moscow, in Tokyo, in her home town in Vienna, in Jakarta and Timbuktu, and God knows where. What tales they would have to tell us about the world, about what was really going on! We would laugh and have another drink, and so on. And local people, of course, would importune us for our colorful, cosmopolitan company and for our inside information

as well.
Ruth said that it was perfectly all right that our telephone did not ring—that, if it weren’t for the fact that my job required me to be available at all hours of the night or day, she would rather not have a telephone in the house. As for conversations with supposedly well-informed people long into the night, she said she hated to stay up past ten o’clock, and that in the concentration camp she had heard enough supposedly inside information to last her for the rest of her days, and then some. “I am not one of those people, Walter,” she said, “who finds it necessary to always know, supposedly, what is really going on.”
It may be that Ruth protected herself from dread of the gathering storm, or, more accurately, from dread of the gathering silence, by reverting during the daytime, when I was at work, to the Ophelia-like elation she had felt after her liberation—when she had thought of herself as a bird all alone with God. She did not neglect the boy, who was five when Leland Clewes went to prison. He was always clean and well-fed. She did not take to secret drinking. She did, however, start to eat a lot.
And this brings me to the subject of body sizes again, something I am very reluctant to discuss—because I don’t want to give them more importance than they deserve. Body sizes can be remarkable for their variations from accepted norms, but still explain almost nothing about the lives led inside those bodies. I am small enough to have been a coxswain, as I have already confessed. That explains nothing. And, by the time Leland Clewes came to trial for perjury, my wife, although only five feet tall, weighed one hundred and sixty pounds or so.
So be it.
Except for this: Our son very early on concluded that his notorious little father and his fat, foreign mother were such social handicaps to him that he actually told several playmates in the neighborhood that he was an adopted child. A neighbor woman invited my wife over for coffee during the daytime exactly once, and with this purpose: to discover if we knew who the boy’s real parents were.
Peace.
So a decent interval went by after Leland Clewes was sent to prison, two years, as I say—and then I was called into the office of Assistant Secretary of the Army Shelton Walker. We had never met. He had never been in government service before. He was my age. He had been in the war and had risen to the rank of major in the Field Artillery and had made the landings in North Africa and then, on D-Day, in France. But he was essentially an Oklahoma businessman. Someone would tell me later that he owned the largest tire distributorship in the state. More startling to me: He was a Republican, for General of the Armies Dwight David Eisenhower had now become President—the first Republican to hold that office in twenty years.
Mr. Walker wished to express, he said, the gratitude that the whole country should feel for my years of faithful service in both war and peace. He said that I had executive skills that would surely have been more lavishly rewarded if I had employed them in private industry. An economy drive was underway, he said, and the post I held was to be terminated. Many other posts were being terminated, so that he was unable to move me somewhere else, as much as he might have liked to do so. I was fired, in short. I am unable to say even now whether he was being unkind or not when he said to me, rising and extending his hand, “You can now sell your considerable skills, Mr. Starbuck, for their true value in the open marketplace of the Free Enterprise System. Happy hunting! Good luck!”
What did I know about Free Enterprise? I know a great deal about it now, but I knew nothing about it then. I knew so little about it then that I was able to imagine for several months that private industry really would pay a lot for an all-purpose executive like me. I told my poor wife during those first months of unemployment that, yes, that was certainly an option we held, in case all else failed: that I could at any time raise my arms like a man crucified, so to speak, and fall backward into General Motors or General Electric or some such thing. A measure of the kindness of this woman to me: She never asked me why I didn’t do that immediately if it was so easy—never asked me to explain why, exactly, I felt that there was something silly and not quite gentlemanly about private industry.
“We may have to be rich, even though we don’t want to be,” I remember telling her somewhere in there. My son was six by then, and listening—and old enough, surely, to ponder such a paradox. Could it have made any sense to him? No.
Meanwhile, I visited and telephoned acquaintances in other departments, making light of being “temporarily at liberty,” as out-of-work actors say. I might have been a man with a comical injury, like a black eye or a broken big toe. Also: All my old acquaintances were Democrats like myself, allowing me to present myself as a victim of Republican stupidity and vengefulness.
But, alas, whereas life for me had been so long a sort of Virginia reel, as friends handed me on from job to job, no one could now think of a vacant post anywhere. Vacancies had suddenly become as extinct as dodo birds.

Too bad.
But the old comrades behaved so naturally and politely toward me that I could not say even now that I was being punished for what I had done to Leland Clewes—if I had not at last appealed for help to an arrogant old man outside of government, who, to my shock, was perfectly willing to show the disgust he felt for me, and to explain it in detail. He was Timothy Beame. He had been an assistant secretary of agriculture under Roosevelt before the war. He had offered me my first job in government. He, too, was a Harvard man and former Rhodes Scholar. Now he was seventy-four years old and the active head of Beame, Mearns, Weld and Weld, the most prestigious law firm in Washington.
I asked him on the telephone if he would have lunch with me. He declined. Most people declined to have lunch with me. He said he could see me for half an hour late that afternoon, but that he could not imagine what we might have to talk about.
“Frankly, sir,” I said, “I’m looking for work—possibly with a foundation or a museum. Something like that.”
“Ohhhhhhhhhhhhh—looking for work, are we?” he said. “Yes—that we should talk about. Come in, by all means. How many years is it now since we’ve had a good talk?”
“Thirteen years, sir,” I said.
“A lot of water goes over the old dam in thirteen years.” “Yes, sir,” I said.
“Ta-ta,” he said.
I was fool enough to keep the appointment.
His reception of me was elaborately hearty and false from the first. He introduced me to his young male secretary, told him what a promising young man I had been, clapping me on the back all the time. This was a man who may never have clapped anyone on the back in his life before.
When we got into his paneled office, Timothy Beame directed me to a leather club chair, saying, “Sit thee doon, sit thee doon.” I have recently come across that same supposedly humorous expression, of course, in Dr. Bob Fender’s science-fiction story about the judge from Vicuna, who got stuck forever to me and my destiny. Again: I doubt if Timothy Beame had ever addressed such an inane locution to anyone ever before. This was a bunchy, shaggy old man, incidentally—accidentally majestic as I was accidentally small. His great hands suggested that he had swung a mighty broadsword long ago, and that they were fumbling for truth and justice now. His white brows were an unbroken thicket from one side to the other, and after he had seated himself at his desk, he dipped his head forward so as to peer at me and speak to me through that hedge.
“I needn’t ask what you’ve been up to lately,” he said.
“No, sir—I guess not,” I said.
“You and young Clewes have managed to make yourselves as famous as Mutt and Jeff,” he said. “To our sorrow,” I said.
“I would hope so. I would certainly hope that there was much sorrow there,” he said.
This was a man who, as it turned out, had only about two more months to live. He had had no hint of that, so far as I know. It was said, after he died, that he would surely have been named to the Supreme Court, if only he had managed to live until the election of another Democrat to the presidency.
“If you are truly sorrowful,” he went on, “I hope you know what it is you are mourning, exactly.” “Sir—?” I said.
“You thought only you and Clewes were involved?” he said.
“Yes, sir,” I said. “And our wives, of course.” I meant it.
He gave a mighty groan. “That is the one thing you should not have said to me,” he said.
“Sir—?” I said.
“You ninny, you Harvard abortion, you incomparably third-rate little horse’s ass,” he said, and he arose from his chair. “You and Clewes have destroyed the good reputation of the most unselfish and intelligent generation of public servants this country has ever known! My God—who can care about you now, or about Clewes? Too bad he’s in jail! Too bad we can’t find another job for you!”
I, too, got up. “Sir,” I said, “I broke no law.”
“The most important thing they teach at Harvard,” he said, “is that a man can obey every law and still be the

worst criminal of his time.”
Where or when this was taught at Harvard, he did not say. It was news to me.
“Mr. Starbuck,” he said, “in case you haven’t noticed: We have recently come through a global conflict between good and evil, during which we grew quite accustomed to beaches and fields littered with the bodies of our own brave and blameless dead. Now I am expected to feel pity for one unemployed bureaucrat, who, for all the damage he has done to his country, should be hanged and drawn and quartered, as far as I am concerned.”
“I only told the truth,” I bleated. I was nauseated with terror and shame.
“You told a fragmentary truth,” he said, “which has now been allowed to represent the whole! ‘Educated and compassionate public servants are almost certainly Russian spies.’ That’s all you are going to hear now from the semiliterate old-time crooks and spellbinders who want the government back, who think it’s rightly theirs. Without the symbiotic idiocies of you and Leland Clewes they could never have made the connection between treason and pity and brains. Now get out of my sight!”
“Sir,” I said. I would have fled if I could, but I was paralyzed.
“You are yet another nincompoop, who, by being at the wrong place at the wrong time,” he said, “was able to set humanitarianism back a full century! Begone!”
Strong stuff.

8
SO THERE I SAT on the bench outside the prison, waiting for the bus, while the Georgia sun beat down on me. A great Cadillac limousine, with pale blue curtains drawn across its back windows, simmered by slowly on the other side of the median divider, on the lanes that would take it to the headquarters of the Air Force base. I could see only the chauffeur, a black man, who was looking quizzically at the prison. The place was not clearly a prison. A quite modest sign at the foot of the flagpole said only this: “F.M.S.A.C.F., Authorized Personnel Only.”
The limousine continued on, until it found a crossover about a quarter of a mile up. Then it came back down and stopped with its glossy front fender inches from my nose. There, reflected in that perfect fender, I saw that old Slavic janitor again. This was the same limousine, it turned out, that had set off the false alarm about the arrival of Virgil Greathouse somewhat earlier. It had been cruising in search of the prison for quite some time.
The chauffeur got out, and he asked me if this was indeed the prison.
Thus was I required to make my first sound as a free man. “Yes,” I said.
The chauffeur, who was a big, serenely paternal, middle-aged man in a tan whipcord uniform and black leather puttees, opened the back door, spoke into the twilit interior. “Gentlemen,” he said, with precisely the appropriate mixture of sorrow and respect, “we have reached our destination.” Letters embroidered in red silk thread on his breast pocket identified his employer. “RAMJAC,” they said.
As I would learn later: Old pals of Greathouse had provided him and his lawyers with swift and secret transportation from his home to prison, so that there would be almost no witnesses to his humiliation. A limousine from Pepsi-Cola had picked him up before dawn at the service entrance to the Waldorf Towers in Manhattan, which was his home. It had taken him to the Marine Air Terminal next to La Guardia, and directly out onto a runway. A corporate jet belonging to Resorts International was waiting for him there. It flew him to Atlanta, where he was met, again right out on the runway, by a curtained limousine supplied by the Southeastern District Office of The RAMJAC Corporation.
Out clambered Virgil Greathouse—dressed almost exactly as I was, in a gray, pinstripe suit and a white shirt and a regimental-stripe tie. Our regiments were different. He was a Coldstream Guard. As always, he was sucking on his pipe. He gave me the briefest of glances.
And then two sleek lawyers got out—one young, one old.
While the chauffeur went to the limousine’s trunk to get the convict’s luggage, Greathouse and the two lawyers looked over the prison as though it were a piece of real estate they were thinking of buying, if the price was right. There was a twinkle in the eyes of Greathouse, and he was imitating birdcalls with his pipe. He may have been thinking how tough he was. He had been taking lessons in boxing and jujitsu and karate, I would learn later from his lawyers, ever since it had become clear to him that he was really going to go to jail.
“Well,” I thought to myself when I heard that, “there won’t be anybody in that particular prison who will want to fight him, but he will get his back broken anyway. Everybody gets his back broken when he goes to prison for the first time. It mends after a while, but never quite the way it was before. As tough as Virgil Greathouse may be, he will never walk or feel quite the same again.”
Virgil Greathouse had failed to recognize me. Sitting there on the bench, I might as well have been a corpse in the mud on a battlefield, and he might have been a general who had come forward during a lull to see how things were going, by and large.
I was unsurprised. I did think, though, that he might recognize the voice from inside the prison, which we could all hear so clearly now. It was the voice of his closest Watergate coconspirator, Emil Larkin, singing at the top of his lungs the Negro spiritual “Sometimes I Feel Like a Motherless Child.”
Greathouse had no time to show his reaction to the voice, for a fighter plane leaped up from the tip of a nearby runway, tore the sky to shreds. This was a gut-ripping sound to anyone who had not heard it and heard it and heard it before. There was never a warning build-up. It was always an end-of-the-world explosion overhead.

Greathouse and the lawyers and the chauffeur flung themselves to the ground. Then they got up again, cursing and laughing and dusting themselves off. Greathouse, supposing correctly that he was being watched and sized up by people he could not see, made some boxing feints and looked up into the sky as though to say, clowningly, “Send me another one. I’m ready this time.” The party did not advance on the prison, however. It waited by the limousine, expecting some sort of welcoming party. Greathouse wanted, I imagine, one last acknowledgment of his rank in society on neutral ground, a sort of surrender at Appomattox, with the warden as Ulysses S. Grant and himself as Robert E. Lee.
But the warden wasn’t even in Georgia. He would have been there if he had had any advance notice that Greathouse was going to surrender on this particular day. But he was in Atlantic City, addressing a convention of the American Association of Parole Officers up there. So it was finally Clyde Carter, the spit and image of President Carter, who came out of the front door a few steps and motioned to them.
Clyde smiled. “You all come in,” he said.
So in they went, with the chauffeur bringing up the rear, carrying two valises made of buttery leather and a matching case for toiletries. Clyde relieved him of the bags at the threshold, told him politely to return to the limousine.
“You won’t be needed in there,” said Clyde.
So the chauffeur got back into the limousine. His name was Cleveland Lawes, a garbling of the name of the man I had ruined, Leland Clewes. He had only a grammar-school education, but he read five books a week while waiting for people, mostly RAMJAC executives and customers and suppliers. Because he had been captured by the Chinese during the Korean War, and had actually gone to China for a while and worked as a deckhand on a coastwise steamer in the Yellow Sea, he was reasonably fluent in Chinese.
Cleveland Lawes was reading The Gulag Archipelago now, an account of the prison system in the Soviet Union by another former prisoner, Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.
So there I was all alone on a bench in the middle of nowhere again. I entered a period of catatonia again—staring straight ahead at nothing, and every so often clapping my old hands three times.
If it had not been for that clapping, Cleveland Lawes tells me now, he would never have become curious about me.
But I became his business by clapping my hands. He had to find out why I did it.
Did I tell him the truth about the clapping? No. It was too complicated and silly. I told him that I had been daydreaming about the past, and that whenever I remembered an especially happy moment, I would lift my hands from my lap, and I would clap three times.
He offered me a ride into Atlanta.
And there I was now, after only half an hour of freedom, sitting in the front seat of a parked limousine. So far so good.
And if Cleveland Lawes had not offered me a ride into Atlanta, he would never have become what he is today, personnel director of the Transico Division of The RAMJAC Corporation. Transico has limousine services and taxicab fleets and car-rental agencies and parking lots and garages all over the Free World. You can even rent furniture from Transico. Many people do.
I asked him if he thought his passengers would mind my coming along to Atlanta.
He said that he had never seen them before, and that he never expected to see them again—that they did not work for RAMJAC. He added the piquant detail that he had not known that his chief passenger had been Virgil Greathouse until the arrival at the prison. Until that moment Greathouse had been disguised by a false beard.
I craned my neck for a look into the backseat, and there the beard was, with one of its wire earloops hooked over a door handle.
Cleveland Lawes said as a joke that he wasn’t sure Greathouse’s lawyers would come back out again. “When they were looking over the prison,” he said, “seemed to me they were trying it on for size.”
He asked me if I had ever ridden in a limousine before. For simplicity’s sake I told him, “No.” As a child of course, I had often ridden beside my father in the front seat of Alexander Hamilton McCone’s various limousines. In my youth, as I was preparing for Harvard, I had often ridden in the backseat with Mr. McCone, with a glass partition between myself and my father. The partition had not seemed strange or even suggestive to me at the time.
And when in Nuremberg I had been master of that grotesque Fafner of a Mercedes touring car. But it had been an

open car, freakish even without the bullet holes in the trunk lid and the rear windshield. The status it gave me among the Bavarians was that of a pirate—in temporary possession of stolen goods that would certainly be restolen, again and again. But, sitting there outside the prison, I realized that I had not sat in a real limousine for perhaps forty-five years! As high as I had risen in public service, I had never been entitled to a limousine, had never been within three promotions of having one of my own or even the occasional use of one. Nor had I ever so beguiled a superior who had one that he had said to me, “Young man—I want to talk to you more about this. You come in my car with me.”
Leland Clewes, on the other hand, though not entitled to one of his own, was forever riding around in limousines with adoring old men.
No matter.
Calm down.
Cleveland Lawes commented that I sounded like an educated man to him. I admitted to having gone to Harvard.
This allowed him to tell me about his having been a prisoner of the Chinese communists in North Korea, for the Chinese major in charge of his prison had been a Harvard man. The major would have been about my age, and possibly even a classmate, but I had never befriended any Chinese. According to Lawes, he had studied physics and mathematics, so I would not have known him in any case.
“His daddy was a big landlord,” said Lawes. “When the communists came, they made his daddy kneel down in front of all his tenants in the village, and then they chopped off his head with a sword.”
“But the son could still be a communist—after that?” I said.
“He said his daddy really had been a very bad landlord,” he said. “Well,” I said, “that’s Harvard for you, I guess.”
This Harvard Chinese befriended Cleveland Lawes and persuaded him to come to China instead of going back home to Georgia when the war was over. When he was a boy, a cousin of Lawes had been burned alive by a mob, and his father had been dragged out of his house one night and horsewhipped by the Ku Klux Klan, and he himself had been beat up twice for trying to register to vote, right before the Army got him. So he was easy prey for a smooth-talking communist. And he worked for two years, as I say, as a deckhand on the Yellow Sea. He said that he fell in love several times, but that nobody would fall in love with him.
“So that was what brought you back?” I asked.
He said it was the church music more than anything else. “There wasn’t anybody to sing with over there,” he said. “And the food,” he said.
“The food wasn’t any good?” I said.
“Oh, it was good,” he said. “It just wasn’t the kind of food I like to talk about.”
“Um,” I said.
“You can’t just eat food,” he said. “You’ve got to talk about it, too. And you’ve got to talk about it to somebody who understands that kind of food.”
I congratulated him on having learned Chinese, and he replied that he could never do such a thing now. “I know too much now,” he said. “I was too ignorant then to know how hard it was to learn Chinese. I thought it was like imitating birds. You know: You hear a bird make a sound, then you try to make a sound just like that, and see if you can’t fool the bird.”
The Chinese were nice about it when he decided that he wanted to go home. They liked him, and they went to some trouble for him, asking through circuitous diplomatic channels what would be done to him if he went home. America had no representatives in China then, and neither did any of its allies. The messages went through Moscow, which was still friendly with China then.
Yes, and this black, former private first class, whose military specialty had been to carry the base-plate of a heavy mortar, turned out to be worth negotiations at the highest diplomatic levels. The Americans wanted him back in order to punish him. The Chinese said that the punishment had to be brief and almost entirely symbolic, and that he had to be returned nearly at once to ordinary civilian life—or they would not let him go. The Americans said that Lawes would of course be expected to make some sort of public explanation of why he had come home. After that, he would be court-martialed, given a prison sentence of under three years and a dishonorable discharge, with forfeiture of all pay and benefits. The Chinese replied that Lawes had given his promise that he would never speak against the People’s Republic of China, which had treated him well. If he was to be forced to break that promise,

they would not let him go. They also insisted that he serve no prison time whatsoever, and that he be paid for the time he spent as a prisoner of war. The Americans replied that he would have to be jailed at some point, since no army could allow the crime of desertion to go unpunished. They would like to jail him prior to his trial. They would sentence him to a term equal to the time he had spent as a prisoner of war, and deduct the time he had spent as a prisoner of war, and send him home. Back pay was out of the question.
And that was the deal.
“They wanted me back, you know,” he told me, “because they were so embarrassed. They couldn’t stand it that even one American, even a black one, would think for even a minute that maybe America wasn’t the best country in the world.”
I asked him if he had ever heard of Dr. Robert Fender, who was convicted of treason during the Korean War, and was right inside the prison there, measuring Virgil Greathouse for a uniform.
“No,” he said. “I never kept track of other people in that kind of trouble. I never felt like it was a club or something.”
I asked him if he had ever seen the legendary Mrs. Jack Graham, Jr., the majority stockholder in The RAMJAC Corporation.
“That’s like asking me if I’ve seen God,” he said.
The widow Graham had not been seen in public, at that point, for about five years. Her most recent appearance was in a courtroom in New York City, where RAMJAC was being sued by a group of its stockholders for proofs that she was still alive. The accounts in the papers amused my wife so, I remember. “This is the America I love,” she said. “Why can’t it be like this all the time?”
Mrs. Graham came into the courtroom without a lawyer, but with eight uniformed bodyguards from Pinkerton, Inc., a RAMJAC subsidiary. One of them was carrying an amplifier with a loudspeaker and a microphone. Mrs. Graham was wearing a voluminous black caftan with its hood up, and with the hood pinned shut with diaper pins, so that she could peek out, but nobody could see what was inside. Only her hands were visible. Another Pinkerton was carrying an inkpad, some paper, and a copy of her fingerprints from the files of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Her prints had been forwarded to the F.B.I. after she was convicted of drunken driving in Frankfort, Kentucky, in Nineteen-hundred and Fifty-two, soon after her husband died. She had been put on probation at that time. I myself had just been fired from government service at that time.
The amplifier was turned on, and the microphone was slipped inside her caftan, so people could hear what she was saying in there. She proved she was who she said she was by fingerprinting herself on the spot and having the prints compared with those possessed by the F.B.I. She said under oath that she was in excellent health, both physically and mentally—and in control of the company’s top officers, but never face-to-face. When she instructed them on the telephone, she used a password to identify herself. This password was changed at irregular intervals. At the judge’s request, I remember, she gave a sample password, and it seemed so full of magic that it still sticks in my mind. This was it: “shoemaker.” Every order she gave on the phone was subsequently confirmed by mail, by a letter written entirely by her own hand. At the bottom of each letter was not only her signature, but a full set of prints from her eight little fingers and two little thumbs. She called them that: “... my eight little fingers and my two little thumbs.”
That was that. Mrs. Jack Graham was unquestionably alive, and now she was free to disappear again.
“I’ve seen Mr. Leen many times,” said Cleveland Lawes. He was speaking of Arpad Leen, the very public and communicative president and chairman of the board of directors of The RAMJAC Corporation. He would become my boss of bosses, and Cleveland Lawes’s boss of bosses, too, when we both became corporate officers of RAMJAC. I say now that Arpad Leen is the most able and informed and brilliant and responsive executive under whom it has ever been my privilege to serve. He is a genius at acquiring companies and keeping them from dying afterward.
He used to say, “If you can’t get along with me, you can’t get along with anybody.”
It was true, it was true.
Lawes said that Arpad Leen had come to Atlanta and been Lawes’s passenger only two months before. A cluster of new stores and luxury hotels in Atlanta had gone bankrupt, and Leen had tried to snap it all up for RAMJAC. He had been outbid, however, by a South Korean religious cult.
Lawes asked me if I had any children. I said I had a son who worked for The New York Times. Lawes laughed and said that he and my son had the same boss now: Arpad Leen. I had missed the news that morning, so he had to

explain to me that RAMJAC had just acquired control of The New York Times and all of its subsidiaries, which included the second-largest catfood company in the world.
“When he was down here,” said Lawes, “Mr. Leen told me this was going to happen. It was the catfood company he wanted—not The New York Times.”
The two lawyers got into the backseat of the limousine. They weren’t subdued at all. They were laughing about the guard who looked like the President of the United States. “I felt like saying to him,” said one, “‘Mr. President, why don’t you just pardon him right here and now? He’s suffered enough, and he could get in some good golf this afternoon.’”
One of them tried on the false beard, and the other one said he looked like Karl Marx. And so on. They were incurious about me. Cleveland Lawes told them that I had been visiting my son. They asked me what my son was in for and I said, “Mail fraud.” That was the end of the conversation.
So off we went to Atlanta. There was a curious object stuck by means of a suction cup to the glove compartment in front of me, I remember. Coming out of the cup and aimed at my breastbone was what looked like about a foot of green garden hose. At the end of the shaft was a white plastic wheel the size of a dinner plate. Once we got going, the wheel began to hypnotize me, bobbing up and down when we went over bumps, swaying this way and then that way as we went around curves.
So I asked about it. It was a toy steering wheel, it turned out. Lawes had a seven-year-old son he sometimes took with him on trips. The little boy could pretend to be steering the limousine with the plastic wheel. There had been no such toy when my own son was little. Then again, he wouldn’t have enjoyed it much. Even at seven, young Walter hated to go anywhere with his mother and me.
I said it was a clever toy.
Lawes said it could be an exciting one, too, especially if the person with the real steering wheel was drunk and having close shaves with oncoming trucks and sideswiping parked cars and so on. He said that the President of the United States ought to be given a wheel like that at his inauguration, to remind him and everybody else that all he could do was pretend to steer.
He let me off at the airport.
The planes to New York City were all overbooked, it turned out. I did not get out of Atlanta until five o’clock that afternoon. That was all right with me. I skipped lunch, having no appetite. I found a paperback book in a toilet stall, so I read that for a while. It was about a man who, through ruthlessness, became the head of a big international conglomerate. Women were crazy about him. He treated them like dirt, but they just came back for more. His son was a drug addict and his daughter was a nymphomaniac.
My reading was interrupted once by a Frenchman who spoke to me in French and pointed to my left lapel. I thought at first that I had set myself on fire again, even though I didn’t smoke anymore. Then I realized that I was still wearing the narrow red ribbon that identified me as a chevalier in the French Légion d’honneur. Pathetically enough, I had worn it all through my trial, and all the way to prison, too.
I told him in English that it had come with the suit, which I had bought secondhand, and that I had no idea what it was supposed to represent.
He became very icy, “Permettez-moi, monsieur,” he said, and he deftly plucked the ribbon from my lapel as though it had been an insect there.
“Merci,” I said, and I returned to my book.
When there was at last an airplane seat for me, my name was broadcast over the public-address system several times: “Mr. Walter F. Starbuck, Mr. Walter F. Starbuck ...”It had been such a notorious name at one time; but I could not now catch sight of anyone who seemed to recognize it, who raised his or her eyebrows in lewd surmise.
Two and a half hours later I was on the island of Manhattan, wearing my trenchcoat to keep out the evening chill. The sun was down. I was staring at an animated display in the window of a store that sold nothing but toy trains.
It was not as though I had no place to go. I was close to where I was going. I had written ahead. I had reserved a room without bath or television for a week, paying in advance—in the once-fashionable Hotel Arapahoe, now a catch-as-catch-can lazaret and bagnio one minute from Times Square.

9
I HAD BEEN to the Arapahoe once before—in the autumn of Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-one. Fire had yet to be domesticated. Albert Einstein had predicted the invention of the wheel, but was unable to describe its probable shape and uses in the language of ordinary women and men. Herbert Hoover, a mining engineer, was President. The sale of alcoholic beverages was against the law, and I was a Harvard freshman.
I was operating under instructions from my mentor, Alexander Hamilton McCone. He told me in a letter that I was to duplicate a folly he himself had committed when a freshman, which was to take a pretty girl to the Harvard- Columbia football game in New York, and then to spend a month’s allowance on a lobster dinner for two, with oysters and caviar and all that, in the famous dining room of the Hotel Arapahoe. We were to go dancing afterward. “You must wear your tuxedo,” he said. “You must tip like a drunken sailor.” Diamond Jim Brady, he told me, had once eaten four dozen oysters, four lobsters, four chickens, four squabs, four T-bone steaks, four pork chops, and four lamb chops there—on a bet. Lillian Russell had looked on.
Mr. McCone may have been drunk when he wrote that letter. “All work and no play,” he wrote, “makes Jack a dull boy.”
And the girl I took there, the twin sister of my roommate, would become one of the four women I would ever truly love. The first was my mother. The last was my wife.
Sarah Wyatt was the girl’s name. She was all of eighteen, and so was I. She was attending a very easy two-year college for rich girls in Wellesley, Massachusetts, which was Pine Manor. Her family lived in Prides Crossing, north of Boston—toward Gloucester. While we were in New York City together she would be staying with her maternal grandmother, a stockbroker’s widow, in a queerly irrelevant enclave of dead-end streets and vest-pocket parks and Elizabethan apartment-hotels called “Tudor City”—near the East River, and actually bridging Forty-second Street. As luck will have it, my son now lives in Tudor City. So do Mr. and Mrs. Leland Clewes.
Small world.
Tudor City was quite new, but already bankrupt and nearly empty when I arrived by taxicab—to take my Sarah to the Hotel Arapahoe in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-one. I was wearing a tuxedo made to my measure by the finest tailor in Cleveland. I had a silver cigarette lighter and a silver cigarette case, both gifts from Mr. McCone. I had forty dollars in my billfold. I could have bought the whole state of Arkansas for forty dollars cash in Nineteen- hundred and Thirty-one.
We come to the matter of physical size again: Sarah Wyatt was three inches taller than me. She did not mind. She was so far from minding that, when I fetched her in Tudor City, she was wearing high heels with her evening dress.
A stronger proof that she was indifferent to our disparity in size: In seven years Sarah Wyatt would agree to marry me.
She wasn’t quite ready when I arrived, so I had to talk to her grandmother, Mrs. Sutton, for a while. Sarah had warned me at the football game that afternoon that I must not mention suicide to Mrs. Sutton—because Mr. Sutton had jumped out of his office window in Wall Street after the stock market crashed in Nineteen-hundred and Twenty- nine.
“It is a nice place you have here, Mrs. Sutton,” I said.
“You’re the only person who thinks so,” she said. “It’s crowded. Everything that goes on in the kitchen you can smell out here.”
It was only a two-bedroom apartment. She had certainly come down in the world. Sarah said she used to have a horse farm in Connecticut and a house on Fifth Avenue, and on and on.
The walls of the little entrance hall were covered with blue ribbons from horse shows before the Crash. “I see you have won a lot of blue ribbons,” I said.
“No,” she said, “it was the horse that won those.”

We were seated on folding chairs at a card table in the middle of the living room. There were no easy chairs, no couch. But the room was so jammed with breakfronts and escritoires and armoires and highboys and lowboys and Welsh dressers and wardrobes and grandfather clocks and so on, that I could not guess where the windows were. It turned out that she also stockpiled servants, all very old. A uniformed maid had let me in, and then exited sideways into a narrow fissure between two imposing examples of cabinetwork.
Now a uniformed chauffeur emerged from the same fissure to ask Mrs. Sutton if she would be going anywhere in “the electric” that night. Many people, especially old ladies, seemingly, had electric cars in those days. They looked like telephone booths on wheels. Under the floor were terribly heavy storage batteries. They had a stop speed of about eleven miles an hour and needed to be recharged every thirty miles or so. They had tillers, like sailboats, instead of steering wheels.
Mrs. Sutton said she would not be going anywhere in the electric, so the old chauffeur said that he would be going to the hotel, then. There were two other servants besides, whom I never saw. They were all going to spend the night at a hotel so that Sarah could have the second bedroom, where they ordinarily slept.
“I suppose this all looks very temporary to you,” Mrs. Sutton said to me.
“No, ma’am,” I said.
“It’s quite permanent,” she said. “I am utterly helpless to improve my condition without a man. It was the way I was brought up. It was the way I was educated.”
“Yes, ma’am,” I said. escritoires and armoires and highboys and lowboys and Welsh dressers and wardrobes and grandfather clocks and so on, that I could not guess where the windows were. It turned out that she also stockpiled servants, all very old. A uniformed maid had let me in, and then exited sideways into a narrow fissure between two imposing examples of cabinetwork.
Now a uniformed chauffeur emerged from the same fissure to ask Mrs. Sutton if she would be going anywhere in “the electric” that night. Many people, especially old ladies, seemingly, had electric cars in those days. They looked like telephone booths on wheels. Under the floor were terribly heavy storage batteries. They had a stop speed of about eleven miles an hour and needed to be recharged every thirty miles or so. They had tillers, like sailboats, instead of steering wheels.
Mrs. Sutton said she would not be going anywhere in the electric, so the old chauffeur said that he would be going to the hotel, then. There were two other servants besides, whom I never saw. They were all going to spend the night at a hotel so that Sarah could have the second bedroom, where they ordinarily slept.
“I suppose this all looks very temporary to you,” Mrs. Sutton said to me.
“No, ma’am,” I said.
“It’s quite permanent,” she said. “I am utterly helpless to improve my condition without a man. It was the way I was brought up. It was the way I was educated.”
“Yes, ma’am,” I said.
“Men in tuxedos as beautifully made as yours is should never call anyone but the Queen of England ‘ma’am,’” she said.
“I’ll try to remember that,” I said.
“You are only a child, of course,” she said.
“Yes, ma’am,” I said.
“Tell me again how you are related to the McCones,” she said.
I had never told anyone that I was related to the McCones. There was another lie I had told frequently, however— a lie, like everything else about me, devised by Mr. McCone. He said it would be perfectly acceptable, even fashionable, to admit that my father was penniless, but it would not do to have a household servant for a father.
The lie went like this, and I told it to Mrs. Sutton: “My father works for Mr. McCone as curator of his art collection. He also advises Mr. McCone on what to buy.”
“A cultivated man,” she said.
“He studied art in Europe,” I said. “He is no businessman.”
“A dreamer,” she said.
“Yes,” I said. “If it weren’t for Mr. McCone, I could not afford to go to Harvard.” “‘Starbuck—’ “she mused. “I believe that’s an old Nantucket name.”

I was ready for that one, too. “Yes,” I said, “but my great-grandfather left Nantucket for the Gold Rush and never returned. I must go to Nantucket sometime and look at the old records, to see where we fit in.”
“A California family,” she said.
“Nomads, really,” I said. “California, yes—but Oregon, too, and Wyoming, and Canada, and Europe. But they were always bookish people—teachers and so on.”
I was pure phlogiston, an imaginary element of long ago. “Descended from whaling captains,” she said.
“I imagine,” I said. I was not at all uncomfortable with the lies. “And from Vikings before that,” she said. I shrugged.
She had decided to like me a lot—and would continue to do so until the end. As Sarah would tell me, Mrs. Sutton often referred to me as her little Viking. She would not live long enough to see Sarah agree to marry me and then to jilt me. She died in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-seven or so—penniless in an apartment furnished with little more than a card table, two folding chairs, and her bed. She had sold off all her treasures in order to support herself and her old servants, who would have had no place to go and nothing to eat without her. She survived them all. The maid, who was Tillie, was the last of them to die. Two weeks after Tillie died, so did Mrs. Sutton depart from this world.
Back there in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-one, while I was waiting for Sarah to complete her toilette, Mrs. Sutton told me that Mr. McCone’s father, the founder of Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron, built the biggest house where she spent her girlhood summers—in Bar Harbor, Maine. When it was finished, he gave a grand ball with four orchestras, and nobody came.
“It seemed very beautiful and noble to snub him like that,” she said. “I remember how happy I was the next day. I can’t help wondering now if we weren’t just a little insane. I don’t mean that we were insane to miss a wonderful party or to hurt the feelings of Daniel McCone. Daniel McCone was a perfectly ghastly man. What was insane was the way we all imagined that God was watching, and simply adoring us, guaranteeing us all seats at His right hand for having snubbed Daniel McCone.”
I asked her what had become of the McCone mansion in Bar Harbor. My mentor had never mentioned it to me.
“Mr. and Mrs. McCone vanished from Bar Harbor the next day,” she said, “with their two young sons, I believe.”
“Yes,” I said. One son became my mentor. The other son became chairman of the board and president of Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron.
“A month later,” she said, “around Labor Day, although there was no Labor Day then—when summer was about to end—a special train arrived. There were perhaps eight freight cars and three cars of workmen, who had come all the way from Cleveland. They must have been from Mr. McCone’s factory. How pale they looked! They were almost all foreigners, I remember—Germans, Poles, Italians, Hungarians. Who could tell? There had never been such people in Bar Harbor before. They slept on the train. They ate on the train. They allowed themselves to be herded like to her. They, too, had been the brainstorm of Alexander Hamilton McCone.
“You are so beautiful!” I said, rising raptly from my folding chair. It was true, surely, for she was tall and slender and golden-haired—and blue-eyed. Her skin was like satin. Her teeth were like pearls. But she radiated about as much sexuality as her grandmother’s card table.
This would continue to be the case for the next seven years. Sarah Wyatt believed that sex was a sort of pratfall that was easily avoided. To avoid it, she had only to remind a would-be lover of the ridiculousness of what he proposed to do to her. The first time I kissed her, which was in Wellesley the week before, I suddenly found myself being played like a tuba, to speak. Sarah was convulsed by laughter, with her lips still pressed to mine. She tickled me. She pulled out my shirttails, leaving me in humiliating disarray. It was terrible. Nor was her laughter about sexuality girlish and nervous, something a man might be expected to modulate with tenderness and anatomical skill. It was the unbridled hee-hawing of somebody at a Marx Brothers film.
A phrase keeps asking to be used at this point: “nobody home.”
It was in fact a phrase used by a Harvard classmate who also took Sarah out, but only twice, as I recall. I asked him what he thought of her, and he replied with some bitterness: “nobody home!” He was Kyle Denny, a football player from Philadelphia. Somebody told me recently that Kyle died in a fall in his bathtub on the day the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor. He cracked his head open on a faucet.
So I can fix the date of Kyle Denny’s death with pinpoint accuracy: December the seventh, Nineteen-hundred and Forty-one.

“You do look nice, my dear,” said Mrs. Sutton to Sarah. She was pitifully ancient—about five years younger than I am now. I thought she might cry about Sarah’s beauty, and how that beauty was sure to fade in just a few years, and on and on. She was very wise.
“I feel so silly,” said Sarah.
“You don’t believe you’re beautiful?” said her grandmother.
“I know I’m beautiful,” said Sarah. “I look in a mirror, and I think, ‘I’m beautiful.’” “What’s wrong, then?” said her grandmother.
“Beautiful is such a funny thing to be,” said Sarah. “Somebody else is ugly, but I’m beautiful. Walter says I’m beautiful. You say I’m beautiful. I say I’m beautiful. Everybody says, ‘Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful,’ and you start wondering what it is, and what’s so wonderful about it.”
“You make people happy with your beauty,” said her grandmother.
“You certainly make me happy with it,” I said.
Sarah laughed. “It’s so silly,” she said. “It’s so dumb,” she said.
“Perhaps you shouldn’t think about it so much,” said her grandmother.
“That’s like telling a midget to stop thinking about being a midget,” said Sarah, and she laughed again. “You should stop saying everything is silly and dumb,” said her grandmother.
“Everything is silly and dumb,” said Sarah.
“You will learn differently as you grow older,” her grandmother promised.
“I think everybody older just pretends to know what’s going on, and it’s all so serious and wonderful,” said Sarah. “Older people haven’t really found out anything new that I don’t know. Maybe if people didn’t get so serious when they got older, we wouldn’t have a depression now.”
“There’s nothing constructive in laughing all the time,” said her grandmother.
“I can cry, too,” said Sarah. “You want me to cry?”
“No,” said her grandmother. “I don’t want to hear any more about it. You just go out with this nice young man and have a lovely time.”
“I can’t laugh about those poor women who painted the clocks,” said Sarah. “That’s one thing I can’t laugh about.”
“Nobody wants you to,” said her grandmother. “You run along now.”
Sarah was referring to an industrial tragedy that was notorious at the time. Sarah’s family was in the middle of it, and sick about it. Sarah had already told me that she was sick about it, and so had her brother, my roommate, and so had their father and mother. The tragedy was a slow one that could not be stopped once it had begun, and it began in the family’s clock company, the Wyatt Clock Company, one of the oldest companies in the United States, in Brockton, Massachusetts. It was an avoidable tragedy. The Wyatts never tried to justify it, and would not hire lawyers to justify it. It could not be justified.
It went like this: In the nineteen twenties the United States Navy awarded Wyatt Clock a contract to produce several thousand standardized ships’ clocks that could be easily read in the dark. The dials were to be black. The hands and the numerals were to be hand-painted with white paint containing the radioactive element radium. About half a hundred Brockton women, most of them relatives of regular Wyatt Clock Company employees, were hired to paint the hands and numerals. It was a way to make pin money. Several of the women who had young children to look after were allowed to do the work at home.
Now all those women had died or were about to die most horribly with their bones crumbling, with their heads rotting off. The cause was radium poisoning. Every one of them had been told by a foreman, it had since come out in court, that she should keep a fine point on her brush by moistening it and shaping it with her lips from time to time.
And, as luck would have it, the daughter of one of those unfortunate women would become one of the four women I have ever loved in this Vale of Tears—along with my mother, my wife, and Sarah Wyatt. Mary Kathleen O’Looney was her name.

10
I SPEAK ONLY OF RUTH as “my wife.” It would not surprise me, though, if on Judgment Day Sarah Wyatt and Mary Kathleen O’Looney were also certified as having been wives of mine. I surely paired off with both of them—with Mary Kathleen for about eleven months, and with Sarah, off and on, to be sure, for about seven years.
I can hear Saint Peter saying to me: “It would appear, Mr. Starbuck, that you were something of a Don Juan.”
So there I was in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-one, sashaying into the wedding-cake lobby of the Hotel Arapahoe with beautiful Sarah Wyatt, the Yankee clock heiress, on my arm. Her family was nearly as broke as mine by then. What little they had salvaged would soon be dispersed among the survivors of the women who painted all those clocks for the Navy. This dispersal would be compelled in about a year by a landmark decision of the United States Supreme Court as to the personal responsibility of employers for deaths in their places of work caused by criminal negligence.
Eighteen-year-old Sarah now said of the Arapahoe lobby, “It’s so dirty—and there’s nobody here.” She laughed. “I love it,” she said.
At that point in time, in the filthy lobby of the Arapahoe, Sarah Wyatt did not know that I was acting with all possible humorlessness on orders from Alexander Hamilton McCone. She would tell me later that she thought I was being witty when I said we should get all dressed up. She thought we were costumed like millionaires in the spirit of Halloween. We would laugh and laugh, she hoped. We would be people in a movie.
Not at all: I was a robot programmed to behave like a genuine aristocrat.
Oh, to be young again!
The dirt in the Arapahoe lobby might not have been so obvious, if somebody had not started to do something about it and then stopped. There was a tall stepladder set against one wall. There was a bucket at the base of it, filled with dirty water and with a brush floating on top. Someone had clearly scaled the ladder with the bucket. He had scrubbed as much of the wall as he could reach from the top. He had created a circle of cleanliness, dribbling filth at its bottom, to be sure, but as bright as a harvest moon.
I do not know who made the harvest moon. There was no one to ask. There had been no doorman to invite us in. There were no bellboys and no guests inside. There wasn’t a soul behind the reception desk in the distance. The newsstand and the theater-ticket kiosk were shuttered. The doors of the unmanned elevators were propped open by chairs.
“I don’t think they’re in business anymore,” said Sarah.
“Somebody accepted my reservation on the telephone,” I said. “He called me ‘monsieur.’” “Anybody can call anybody ‘monsieur’ on the telephone,” said Sarah.
But then we heard a Gypsy violin crying somewhere—sobbing as though its heart would break. And when I hear that violin’s lamenting in my memory now, I am able to add this information: Hitler, not yet in power, would soon cause to be killed every Gypsy his soldiers and policemen could catch.
The music was coming from behind a folding screen in the lobby. Sarah and I dared to move the screen from the wall. We were confronted by a pair of French doors, which were held shut with a padlock and hasp. The panes in the doors were mirrors, showing us yet again how childish and rich we were. But Sarah discovered one pane that had a flaw in its silvering. She peeped through the flaw, then invited me to take a turn. I was flabbergasted. I might have been peering into the twinkling prisms of a time machine. On the other side of the French doors was the famous dining room of the Hotel Arapahoe in pristine condition, complete with a Gypsy fiddler—almost atom for atom as it must have been in the time of Diamond Jim Brady. A thousand candles in the chandeliers and on the tables became billions of tiny stars because of all the silver and crystal and china and mirrors in there.
The story was this: The hotel and the restaurant, while sharing the same building, one minute from Times Square, were under separate ownerships. The hotel had given up—was no longer taking guests. The restaurant, on the other

hand, had just been completely refurbished, its owner believing that the collapse of the economy would be brief, and was caused by nothing more substantial than a temporary loss of nerve by businessmen.
Sarah and I had come in through the wrong door. I told Sarah as much, and she replied, “That is the story of my life. I always go in the wrong door first.”
So Sarah and I went out into the night again and then in through the door to the place where food and drink awaited us. Mr. McCone had told me to order the meal in advance. That I had done. The owner himself received us. He was French. On the lapel of his tuxedo was a decoration that meant nothing to me, but which was familiar to Sarah, since her father had one, too. It meant, she would explain to me, that he was a chevalier in the Légion d’honneur.
Sarah had spent many summers in Europe. I had never been there. She was fluent in French, and she and the owner performed a madrigal in that most melodious of all languages. How would I ever have got through life without women to act as my interpreters? Of the four women I ever loved, only Mary Kathleen O’Looney spoke no language but English. But even Mary Kathleen was my interpreter when I was a Harvard communist, trying to communicate with members of the American working class.
The restaurant owner told Sarah in French, and then she told me, about the Great Depression’s being nothing but a loss of nerve. He said that alcoholic beverages would be legal again as soon as a Democrat was elected President, and that life would become fun again.
He led us to our table. The room could seat at least one hundred, I would guess, but there were only a dozen other patrons there. Somehow, they still had cash. And when I try to remember them now, and to guess what they were, I keep seeing the pictures by George Grosz of corrupt plutocrats amidst the misery of Germany after World War One. I had not seen those pictures in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-one. I had not seen anything.
There was a puffy old woman, I remember, eating alone and wearing a diamond necklace. She had a Pekingese dog in her lap. The dog had a diamond necklace, too.
There was a withered old man, I remember, hunched over his food, hiding it with his arms. Sarah whispered that he ate as though his meal were a royal flush. We would later learn that he was eating caviar.
“This must be a very expensive place,” said Sarah.
“Don’t worry about it,” I said.
“Money is so strange,” she said. “Does it make any sense to you?”
“No,” I said.
“The people who’ve got it, and the people who don’t—” she mused. “I don’t think anybody understands what’s really going on.”
“Some people must,” I said. I no longer believe that.
I will say further, as an officer of an enormous international conglomerate, that nobody who is doing well in this economy ever even wonders what is really going on.
We are chimpanzees. We are orangutans.
“Does Mr. McCone know how much longer the Depression will last?” she said. “He doesn’t know anything about business,” I said.
“How can he still be so rich, if he doesn’t know anything about business?” she said. “His brother runs everything,” I said.
“I wish my father had somebody to run everything for him,” she said.
I knew that things were going so badly for her father that her brother, my roommate, had decided to drop out of school at the end of the semester. He would never go back to school, either. He would take a job as an orderly in a tuberculosis sanitarium, and himself contract tuberculosis. That would keep him out of the armed forces in the Second World War. He would work as a welder in a Boston shipyard, instead. I would lose touch with him. Sarah, whom I see regularly again, told me that he died of a heart attack in Nineteen-hundred and Sixty-five—in a cluttered little welding shop he ran singlehanded in the village of Sandwich, on Cape Cod.
His name was Radford Alden Wyatt. He never married. According to Sarah, he had not bathed in years.
“Shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations,” as the saying goes.
In the case of the Wyatts, actually, it was more like shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in ten generations. They had been richer than most of their neighbors for at least that long. Sarah’s father was now selling off at rock-bottom prices all

the treasures his ancestors had accumulated—English pewter, silver by Paul Revere, paintings of Wyatts as sea captains and merchants and preachers and lawyers, treasures from the China Trade.
“It’s so awful to see my father so low all the time,” said Sarah. “Is your father low, too?”
She was speaking of my fictitious father, the curator of Mr. McCone’s art collection. I could see him quite clearly then. I can’t see him at all now. “No,” I said.
“You’re so lucky,” she said.
“I guess so,” I said. My real father was in fact in easy circumstances. My mother and he had been able to bank almost every penny they made, and the bank they put their money in had not failed.
“If only people wouldn’t care so much about money,” she said. “I keep telling father that I don’t care about it. I don’t care about not going to Europe anymore. I hate school. I don’t want to go there anymore. I’m not learning anything. I’m glad we sold our boats. I was bored with them, anyway. I don’t need any clothes. I have enough clothes to last me a hundred years. He just won’t believe me. ‘I’ve let you down. I’ve let everybody down,’ he says.”
Her father, incidentally, was an inactive partner in the Wyatt Clock Company. This did not limit his liability in the radium-poisoning case, but his principal activity in the good old days had been as the largest yacht broker in Massachusetts. That business was utterly shot in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-one, of course. And it, too, in the process of dying, left him with what he once described to me as “... a pile of worthless accounts-receivable as high as Mount Washington, and a pile of bills as high as Pike’s Peak.”
He, too, was a Harvard man—the captain of the undefeated swimming team of Nineteen-hundred and Eleven. After he lost everything, he would never work again. He would be supported by his wife, who would operate a catering service out of their home. They would die penniless.
So I am not the first Harvard man who had to be supported by his wife.
Peace.
Sarah said to me at the Arapahoe that she was sorry to be so depressing, that she knew we were supposed to have fun. She said she would really try to have fun.
It was then that the waiter, shepherded by the owner, delivered the first course, specified by Mr. McCone in Cleveland, so far away. It was a half-dozen Cotuit oysters for each of us. I had never eaten an oyster before.
“Bon appétit!” said the owner. I was thrilled. I had never had anybody say that to me before. I was so pleased to understand something in French without the help of an interpreter. I had studied French for four years in a Cleveland public high school, by the way, but I never found anyone who spoke the dialect I learned out there. It may have been French as it was spoken by Iroquois mercenaries in the French and Indian War.
Now the Gypsy violinist came to our table. He played with all possible hypocrisy and brilliance, in the frenzied expectation of a tip. I remembered that Mr. McCone had told me to tip lavishly. I had not so far tipped anyone. So I got out my billfold surreptitiously while the music was still going on, and I took from it what I thought was a one- dollar bill. A common laborer in those days would have worked ten hours for a dollar. I was about to make a lavish tip. Fifty cents would have put me quite high up in the spendthrift class. I wadded up the bill in my right hand, so as to tip with the quick grace of a magician when the music stopped.
The trouble was this: It wasn’t a one-dollar bill. It was a twenty-dollar bill.
I blame Sarah somewhat for this sensational mistake. While I was taking the money from the billfold, she was satirizing sexual love again, pretending that the music was filling her with lust. She undid my necktie, which I would be unable to retie. It had been tied by the mother of a friend with whom I was staying. Sarah kissed the tips of two of her fingers passionately, and then pressed those fingers to my white collar, leaving a smear of lipstick there.
Now the music stopped. I smiled my thanks. Diamond Jim Brady, reincarnated as the demented son of a Cleveland chauffeur, handed the Gypsy a twenty-dollar bill.
The Gypsy was quite suave at first, imagining that he had received a dollar.
Sarah, believing it to be a dollar, too, thought I had tipped too much. “Good God,” she said.
But then, perhaps to taunt Sarah with the bill that she would have liked me to take back, but which was now his, all his, the Gypsy unfolded the wad, so that its astronomical denomination became apparent to all of us for the first time. He was as aghast as we were.
And then, being a Gypsy, and hence one microsecond more cunning about money than we were, he darted out of the restaurant and into the night. I wonder to this day if he ever came back for his fiddlecase.
But imagine the effect on Sarah!

She thought I had done it on purpose, that I was stupid enough to imagine that this would be a highly erotic event for her. Never have I been loathed so much.
“You inconceivable twerp,” she said. Most of the speeches in this book are necessarily fuzzy reconstructions—but when I assert that Sarah Wyatt called me an “inconceivable twerp,” that is exactly what she said.
To give an extra dimension to the scolding she gave me: The word “twerp” was freshly coined in those days, and had a specific definition—it was a person, if I may be forgiven, who bit the bubbles of his own farts in a bathtub.
“You unbelievable jerk,” she said. A “jerk” was a person who masturbated too much. She knew that. She knew all those things.
“Who do you think you are?” she said. “Or, more to the point, who do you think I am? I may be a dumb toot,” she said, “but how dare you think I am such a dumb toot that I would think what you just did was glamorous?”
This was the lowest point in my life, possibly. I felt worse then than I did when I was put in prison—worse, even, than when I was turned loose again. I may have felt worse then, even, than when I set fire to the drapes my wife was about to deliver to a client in Chevy Chase.
“Kindly take me home,” Sarah Wyatt said to me. We left without eating, but not without paying. I could not help myself: I cried all the way home.
I told her brokenly in the taxicab that nothing about the evening had been my own idea, that I was a robot invented and controlled by Alexander Hamilton McCone. I confessed to being half-Polish and half-Lithuanian and nothing but a chauffeur’s son who had been ordered to put on the clothing and airs of a gentleman. I said I wasn’t going back to Harvard, and that I wasn’t even sure I wanted to live anymore.
I was so pitiful, and Sarah was so contrite and interested, that we became the closest of friends, as I say, off and on for seven years.
She would drop out of Pine Manor. She would become a nurse. While in nurse’s training she would become so upset by the sickening and dying of the poor that she would join the Communist Party. She would make me join, too.
So I might never have become a communist, if Alexander Hamilton McCone had not insisted that I take a pretty girl to the Arapahoe. And now, forty-five years later, here I was entering the lobby of the Arapahoe again. Why had I chosen to spend my first nights of freedom there? For the irony of it. No American is so old and poor and friendless that he cannot make a collection of some of the most exquisite little ironies in town.
Here I was again, back where a restaurateur had first said to me, “Bon appétit!”
A great chunk of the original lobby was now a travel agency. What remained for overnight guests was a narrow corridor with a reception desk at the far end. It wasn’t wide enough to accommodate a couch or chair. The mirrored French doors through which Sarah and I had peered into the famous dining room were gone. The archway that had framed them was still there, but it was clogged now with masonry as brutal and unadorned as the wall that kept communists from becoming capitalists in Berlin, Germany. There was a pay telephone bolted to the barrier. Its coinbox had been pried open. Its handset was gone.
And yet the man at the reception desk in the distance appeared to be wearing a tuxedo, and even a boutonniére!
As I advanced on him, it became apparent that my eyes had been tricked on purpose. He was in fact wearing a cotton T-shirt on which were printed a trompe l’oeil tuxedo jacket and shirt, with a boutonniére, bow tie, shirtstuds, handkerchief in the pocket, and all. I had never seen such a shirt before. I did not find it comical. I was confused. It was not a joke somehow.
The night clerk had a beard that was real, and an even more aggressively genuine bellybutton, exposed above his low-slung trousers. He no longer dresses that way, may I say, now that he is vice-president in charge of purchasing for Hospitality Associates, Ltd., a division of The RAMJAC Corporation. He is thirty years old now. His name is Israel Edel. Like my son, he is married to a black woman. He holds a Doctor’s degree in history from Long Island University, summa cum laude, and is a Phi Beta Kappa. When we first met, in fact, Israel had to look up at me from the pages of The American Scholar, the Phi Beta Kappa learned monthly. Working as night clerk at the Arapahoe was the best job he could find.
“I have a reservation,” I said.
“You have a what?” he said. He was not being impudent. His surprise was genuine. No one ever made a reservation at the Arapahoe anymore. The only way to arrive there was unexpectedly, in response to some misfortune. As Israel said to me only the other day, when we happened to meet in an elevator, “Making a reservation at the Arapahoe is like making a reservation in a burn ward.” He now oversees the purchasing at the Arapahoe,

incidentally, which, along with about four hundred other hostelries all over the world, including one in Katmandu, is a Hospitality Associates, Ltd., hotel.
He found my letter of reservation in the otherwise vacant bank of pigeonholes behind him. “A week?” he said incredulously.
“Yes,” I said.
My name meant nothing to him. His area of historical expertise was heresies in thirteenth-century Normandy. But he did glean that I was an ex-jailbird—from the slightly queer return address on my envelope: a box number in the middle of nowhere in Georgia, and some numbers after my name.
“The least we can do,” he said, “is to give you the Bridal Suite.”
There was in fact no Bridal Suite. Every suite had long ago been partitioned into cells. But there was one cell, and only one, which had been freshly painted and papered—as a result, I would later learn, of a particularly gruesome murder of a teen-age male prostitute in there. Israel Edel was not himself being gruesome now. He was being kind. The room really was quite cheerful.
He gave me the key, which I later discovered would open practically every door in the hotel. I thanked him, and I made a small mistake we irony collectors often make: I tried to share an irony with a stranger. It can’t be done. I told him I had been in the Arapahoe before—in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-one. He was not interested. I do not blame him.
“I was painting the town red with a girl,” I said.
“Um,” he said.
I persisted, though. I told him how we had peeked through the French doors into the famous restaurant. I asked him what was on the other side of that wall now.
His reply, which he himself considered a bland statement of fact, fell so harshly on my ears that he might as well have slapped me hard in the face. He said this:
“Fist-fucking films.”
I had never heard of such things. I gropingly asked what they were.
It woke him up a little, that I should be so surprised and appalled. He was sorry, as he would tell me later, to have brought a sweet little old man such ghastly news about what was going on right next door. He might have been my father, and I was his little child. He even said to me, “Never mind.”
“Tell me,” I said.
So he explained slowly and patiently, and most reluctantly, that there was a motion-picture theater where the restaurant used to be. It specialized in films of male homosexual acts of love, and that their climaxes commonly consisted of one actor’s thrusting his fist up the fundament of another actor.
I was speechless. Never had I dreamed that the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States of America and the enchanting technology of a motion-picture camera would be combined to form such an atrocity.
“Sorry,” he said.
“I doubt very much if you’re to blame,” I said. “Good night.” I went in search of my room.
I passed the brutal wall where the French doors had been—on my way to the elevator. I paused there for a moment. My lips mouthed something that I myself did not understand for a moment. And then I realized what my lips must have said, what they had to say.
It was this, of course: “Bon appétit.”

11
WHAT WOULD the next day hold for me?
I would, among other things, meet Leland Clewes, the man I had betrayed in Nineteen-hundred and Forty-nine.
But first I would unpack my few possessions, put them away nicely, read a little while, and then get my beauty sleep. I would be tidy. “At least I don’t smoke anymore,” I thought. The room was so clean to begin with.
Two top drawers in the dresser easily accepted all I owned, but I looked into all the other drawers anyway. Thus I discovered that the bottom drawer contained seven incomplete clarinets—without cases, mouthpieces, or bells.
Life is like that sometimes.
What I should have done, especially since I was an ex-convict, was to march back down to the front desk immediately and to say that I was the involuntary custodian of a drawerful of clarinet parts and that perhaps the police should be called. They were of course stolen. As I would learn the next day, they had been taken from a truck hijacked on the Ohio Turnpike—a robbery in which the driver had been killed. Thus, anyone associated with the incomplete instruments, should they turn up, might also be an accessory to murder. There were notices in every music store in the country, it turned out, saying that the police should be called immediately if a customer started talking about buying or selling sizeable quantities of clarinet parts. What I had in my drawer, I would guess, was about a thousandth of the stolen truckload.
But I simply closed the drawer again. I didn’t want to go right back downstairs again. There was no telephone in my room. I would say something in the morning.
I was exhausted, I found. It was not yet curtain time in all the theaters down below, but I could hardly keep my eyes open. So I pulled my window-shade down, and I put myself to bed. Off I went, as my son used to say when he was little, “to seepy-bye,” which is to say, “to sleep.”
I dreamed that I was in an easy chair at the Harvard Club of New York, only four blocks away. I was not young again. I was not a jailbird, however, but a very successful man—the head of a medium-size foundation, perhaps, or assistant secretary of the interior, or executive director of the National Endowment for the Humanities, or some such thing. I really would have been some such thing in my sunset years, I honestly believe, if I had not testified against Leland Clewes in Nineteen-hundred and Forty-nine.
It was a compensatory dream. How I loved it. My clothes were in perfect repair. My wife was still alive. I was sipping brandy and coffee after a fine supper with several other members of the Class of Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-five. One detail from real life carried over into the dream: I was proud that I did not smoke anymore.
But then I absentmindedly accepted a cigarette. It was simply one more civilized satisfaction to go with the good talk and my warm belly and all. “Yes, yes—” I said, recalling some youthful shenanigans. I chuckled, eyes twinkling. I put the cigarette to my lips. A friend held a match to it. I inhaled the smoke right down to the soles of my feet.
In the dream I collapsed to the floor in convulsions. In real life I fell out of my bed at the Hotel Arapahoe. In the dream my damp, innocent pink lungs shriveled into two black raisins. Bitter brown tar seeped from my ears and nostrils.
But worst of all was the shame.
Even as I was beginning to perceive that I was not in the Harvard Club, and that old classmates were not sitting forward in their leather chairs and looking down at me, and even after I found I could still gulp down air and it would nourish me—even then I was still strangling on shame.
I had just squandered the very last thing I had to be proud of in life: the fact that I did not smoke anymore.
And as I came awake, I examined my hands in the light that billowed up from Times Square and then bounced down on me from my freshly painted ceiling. I spread my fingers and turned my hands this way and that, as a magician might have done. I was showing an imaginary audience that the cigarette I had held only a moment before

had now vanished into thin air.
But I, as magician, was as mystified as the audience as to what had become of the cigarette. I got up off the floor, woozy with disgrace, and I looked around everywhere for a cigarette’s tell-tale red eye.
But there was no red eye.
I sat down on the edge of my bed, wide awake at last, and drenched in sweat. I took an inventory of my condition. Yes, I had gotten out of prison only that morning. Yes, I had sat in the smoking section of the airplane, but had felt no wish to smoke. Yes, I was now on the top floor of the Hotel Arapahoe.
No, there was no cigarette anywhere.
As for the pursuit of happiness on this planet: I was as happy as any human being in history. “Thank God,” I thought, “that cigarette was only a dream.”

12
AT SIX O’CLOCK on the following morning, which was the prison’s time for rising, I walked out into a city stunned by its own innocence. Nobody was doing anything bad to anybody anywhere. It was even hard to imagine badness. Why would anybody be bad?
It seemed doubtful that any great number of people lived here anymore. The few of us around might have been tourists in Angkor Wat, wondering sweetly about the religion and commerce that had caused people to erect such a city. And what had made all those people, obviously so excited for a while, decide to go away again?
Commerce would have to be reinvented. I offered a news dealer two dimes, bits of silverfoil as weightless as lint, for a copy of The New York Times. If he had refused, I would have understood perfectly. But he gave me a Times, and then he watched me closely, clearly wondering what I proposed to do with all that paper spattered with ink.
Eight thousand years before, I might have been a Phoenician sailor who had beached his boat on sand in Normandy, and who was now offering a man painted blue two bronze spearheads for the fur hat he wore. He was thinking: “Who is this crazy man?” And I was thinking: “Who is this crazy man?”
I had a whimsical idea: I thought of calling the secretary of the treasury, Kermit Winkler, a man who had graduated from Harvard two years after me, and saying this to him: “I just tried out two of your dimes on Times Square, and they Worked like a dream. It looks like another great day for the coinage!”
I encountered a baby-faced policeman. He was as uncertain about his role in the city as I was. He looked at me sheepishly, as though there were every chance that I was the policeman and he was the old bum. Who could be sure of anything that early in the day?
I looked at my reflection in the black marble façade of a shuttered record store. Little did I dream that I would soon be a mogul of the recording industry, with gold and platinum recordings of moronic cacophony on my office wall.
There was something odd about the position of my arms in my reflection. I pondered it. I appeared to be cradling a baby. And then I understood that this was harmonious with my mood, that I was actually carrying what little future I thought I had as though it were a baby. I showed the baby the tops of the Empire State Building and the Chrysler Building, the lions in front of the Public Library. I carried it into an entrance to Grand Central Station, where, if we tired of the city, we could buy a ticket to simply anywhere.
Little did I dream that I would soon be scuttling through the catacombs beneath the station, and that I would learn the secret purpose of The RAMJAC Corporation down there.
The baby and I headed back west again. If we had kept going east, we would have soon delivered ourselves to Tudor City, where my son lived. We did not want to see him. Yes, and we paused before the window of a store that offered wicker picnic hampers—fitted out with Thermos bottles and tin boxes for sandwiches and so on. There was also a bicycle. I assumed that I could still ride a bicycle. I told the baby in my mind that we might buy a hamper and a bicycle and ride out on an abandoned dock some nice day and eat chicken sandwiches and wash them down with lemonade, while seagulls soared and keened overhead. I was beginning to feel hungry. Back in prison I would have been full of coffee and oatmeal by then.
I passed the Century Association on West Forty-third Street, a gentleman’s club where, shortly after the Second World War, I had once been the luncheon guest of Peter Gibney, the composer, a Harvard classmate of mine. I was never invited back. I would have given anything now to be a bartender in there, but Gibney was still alive and probably still a member. We had had a falling out, you might say, after I testified against Leland Clewes. Gibney sent me a picture postcard, so that my wife and the postman could read the message, too.
“Dear shithead,” it said, “why don’t you crawl back under a damp rock somewhere?” The picture was of the Mona Lisa, with that strange smile of hers.
Down the block was the Coffee Shop of the Hotel Royalton, and I made for that. The Royalton, incidentally, like the Arapahoe, was a Hospitality Associates, Ltd., hotel; which is to say, a RAMJAC hotel. By the time I reached the

coffee-shop door, however, my self-confidence had collapsed. Panic had taken its place. I believed that I was the ugliest, dirtiest little old bum in Manhattan. If I went into the coffee shop, everybody would be nauseated. They would throw me out and tell me to go to the Bowery, where I belonged.
But I somehow found the courage to go in anyway—and imagine my surprise! It was as though I had died and gone to heaven! A waitress said to me, “Honeybunch, you sit right down, and I’ll bring you your coffee right away.” I hadn’t said anything to her.
So I did sit down, and everywhere I looked I saw customers of every description being received with love. To the waitress everybody was “honeybunch” and “darling” and “dear.” It was like an emergency ward after a great catastrophe. It did not matter what race or class the victims belonged to. They were all given the same miracle drug, which was coffee. The catastrophe in this case, of course, was that the sun had come up again.
I thought to myself, “My goodness—these waitresses and cooks are as unjudgmental as the birds and lizards on the Galápagos Islands, off Ecuador.” I was able to make the comparison because I had read about those peaceful islands in prison, in a National Geographic loaned to me by the former lieutenant governor of Wyoming. The creatures there had had no enemies, natural or unnatural, for thousands of years. The idea of anybody’s wanting to hurt them was inconceivable to them.
So a person coming ashore there could walk right up to an animal and unscrew its head, if he wanted to. The animal would have no plan for such an occasion. And all the other animals would simply stand around and watch, unable to draw any lessons for themselves from what was going on. A person could unscrew the head of every animal on an island, if that was his idea of business or fun.
I had the feeling that if Frankenstein’s monster crashed into the coffee shop through a brick wall, all anybody would say to him was, “You sit down here, Lambchop, and I’ll bring you your coffee right away.”
The profit motive was not operating. The transactions were on the order of sixty-eight cents, a dollar ten, two dollars and sixty-three ... I would find out later that the man who ran the cash register was the owner, but he would not stay at his post to rake the money in. He wanted to cook and wait on people, too, so that the waitresses and cooks kept having to say to him, “That’s my customer, Frank. Get back to the cash register,” or “I’m the cook here, Frank. What’s this mess you’ve started here? Get back to the cash register,” and so on.
His full name was Frank Ubriaco. He is now executive vice-president of the McDonald’s Hamburgers Division of The RAMJAC Corporation.
I could not help noticing that he had a withered right hand. It looked as though it had been mummified, although he could still use his fingers some. I asked my waitress about it. She said he had literally French-fried that hand about a year ago. He accidentally dropped his wristwatch into a vat of boiling cooking oil. Before he realized what he was doing, he had plunged his hand into the oil, trying to rescue the watch, which was a very expensive Bulova Accutron.
So out into the city I went again, feeling much improved.
I sat down to read my newspaper in Bryant Park, behind the Public Library at Forty-second Street. My belly was full and as warm as a stove. It was no novelty for me to read The New York Times. About half the inmates back at the prison had mail subscriptions to the Times, and to The Wall Street Journal, too, and Time and Newsweek and Sports Illustrated, too, and on and on. And People. I subscribed to nothing, since the prison trash baskets were forever stuffed with periodicals of every kind.
There was a sign over every trash basket in prison, incidentally, which said, “Please!” Underneath that word was an arrow that pointed straight down.
In leafing through the Times, I saw that my son, Walter Stankiewicz, né Starbuck, was reviewing the autobiography of a Swedish motion-picture star. Walter seemed to like it a lot. I gathered that she had had her ups and downs.
What I particularly wanted to read, though, was the Times’s account of its having been taken over by The RAMJAC Corporation. The event might as well have been an epidemic of cholera in Bangladesh. It was given three inches of space on the bottom corner of an inside page. The chairman of the board of RAMJAC, Arpad Leen, said in the story that RAMJAC contemplated no changes in personnel or editorial policy. He pointed out that all publications taken over by RAMJAC in the past, including those of Time Inc., and been allowed to go on as they wished, without any interference from RAMJAC.
“Nothing has changed but the ownership,” he said. And I must say, as a former RAMJAC executive myself, that we didn’t change companies we take over very much. If one of them started to die, of course—then our curiosity was aroused.

The story said that the publisher of the Times had received a handwritten note from Mrs. Jack Graham “... welcoming him to the RAMJAC family.” It said she hoped he would stay on in his present capacity. Beneath the signature were the prints of all her fingers and thumbs. There could be no question about the letter’s being genuine.
I looked about myself in Bryant Park. Lilies of the valley had raised their little bells above the winter-killed ivy and glassine envelopes that bordered the walks. My wife Ruth and I had had lilies of the valley and ivy growing under the flowering crab apple tree in the front yard of our little brick bungalow in Chevy Chase, Maryland.
I spoke to the lilies of the valley. “Good morning,” I said.
Yes, and I must have gone into a defensive trance again. Three hours passed without my budging from the bench.
I was aroused at last by a portable radio that was turned up loud. The young man carrying it sat down on a bench facing mine. He appeared to be Hispanic. I did not learn his name. If he had done me some kindness, he might now be an executive in The RAMJAC Corporation. The radio was tuned to the news. The newscaster said that the air quality that day was unacceptable.
Imagine that: unacceptable air.
The young man did not appear to be listening to his own radio. He may not even have understood English. The newscaster spoke with a barking sort of hilarity, as though life were a comical steeplechase, with unconventional steeds and hazards and vehicles involved. He made me feel that even I was a contestant—in a bathtub drawn by three aardvarks, perhaps. I had as good a chance as anybody to win.
He told about another man in the steeplechase, who had been sentenced to die in an electric chair in Texas. The doomed man had instructed his lawyers to fight anybody, including the governor and the President of the United States, who might want to grant him a stay of execution. The thing he wanted more than anything in life, evidently, was death in the electric chair.
Two joggers came down the path between me and the radio. They were a man and a woman in identical orange- and-gold sweatsuits and matching shoes. I already knew about the jogging craze. We had had many joggers in prison. I found them smug.
About the young man and his radio. I decided that he had bought the thing as a prosthetic device, as an artificial enthusiasm for the planet. He paid as little attention to it as I paid to my false front tooth. I have since seen several young men like that in groups—with their radios tuned to different stations, with their radios engaged in a spirited conversation. The young men themselves, perhaps having been told nothing but “shut up” all their lives, had nothing to say.
But now the young man’s radio said something so horrifying that I got off my bench, left the park, and joined the throng of Free Enterprisers charging along Forty-second Street toward Fifth Avenue.
The story was this: An imbecilic young female drug addict from my home state of Ohio, about nineteen years old, had had a baby whose father was unknown. Social workers put her and the baby into a hotel not unlike the Arapahoe. She bought a full-grown German shepherd police dog for protection, but she forgot to feed it. Then she went out one night on some unspecified errand, and she left the dog to guard the baby. When she got back, she found that the dog had killed the baby and eaten part of it.
What a time to be alive!
So there I was marching as purposefully as anybody toward Fifth Avenue. According to plan, I began to study the faces coming at me, looking for a familiar one that might be of some use to me. I was prepared to be patient. It would be like panning for gold, I thought, like looking for a glint of the precious in a dish of sand.
When I had got no farther than the curb at Fifth Avenue, though, my warning systems went off ear-splittingly:
“Beep, beep, beep! Honk, honk, honk! Rowrr, rowrr, rowrr!”
Positive identification had been made!
Corning right at me was the husk of the man who had stolen Sarah Wyatt from me, the man I had ruined back in
Nineteen-hundred and Forty-nine. He had not seen me yet. He was Leland Clewes!
He had lost all his hair, and his feet were capsizing in broken shoes, and the cuffs of his trousers were frayed, and his right arm appeared to have died. Dangling at the end of it was a battered sample case. Clewes had become an unsuccessful salesman, as I would find out later, of advertising matchbooks and calendars.
He is nowadays, incidentally, a vice-president in the Diamond Match Division of The RAMJAC Corporation.
In spite of all that had happened to him, though, his face, as he came toward me, was illuminated as always with an adolescent, goofy good will. He had worn that expression even in a photograph of his entering prison in Georgia,

with the warden looking up at him as the secretary of state used to do. When Clewes was young, older men were always looking up at him as though to say, “That’s my boy.”
Now he saw me!
The eye contact nearly electrocuted me. I might as well have stuck my nose into a lamp socket!
I went right past him and in the opposite direction. I had nothing to say to him, and no wish to stand and listen to all the terrible things he was entitled to say to me.
When I gained the curb, though, and the lights changed, and we were separated by moving cars, I dared to look back at him.
Clewes was facing me. Plainly, he had not yet come up with a name for me. He pointed at me with his free hand, indicating that he knew I had figured in his life in some way. And then he made that finger twitch like a metronome, ticking off possible names for me. This was fun for him. His feet were apart, his knees were bent, and his expression said that he remembered this much, anyway: We had been involved years ago in some sort of wildness, in a boyish prank of some kind.
I was hypnotized.
As luck would have it, there were religious fanatics behind him, barefoot and chanting and dancing in saffron robes. Thus did he appear to be a leading man in a musical comedy.
Nor was I without my own supporting cast. Willy-nilly, I had placed myself between a man wearing sandwich boards and a top hat, and a little old woman who had no home, who carried all her possessions in shopping bags. She wore enormous purple-and-black basketball shoes. They were so out of scale with the rest of her that she looked like a kangaroo.
My companions were both speaking to passers-by. The man in the sandwich boards was saying such things as “Put women back in the kitchen,” and “God never meant women to be the equals of men,” and so on. The shopping- bag lady seemed to be scolding strangers for their obesity, calling them, as I understood her, “stuck-up fats,” and “rich Tats,” and “snooty fats,” and “fats” of a hundred other varieties.
The thing was: I had been away from Cambridge, Massachusetts, so long that I could no longer detect that she was calling people “farts” in the accent of the Cambridge working class.
And in the toe of one of her capacious basketball shoes, among other things, were hypocritical love letters from me. Small world!
Good God! What a reaper and binder life can be sometimes!
When Leland Clewes, on the other side of Fifth Avenue, realized who I was, he formed his mouth into a perfect “O.” I could not hear his saying “Oh,” but I could see his saying “Oh.” He was making fun of our encounter after all these years, overacting his surprise and dismay like an actor in a silent movie.
Plainly, he was going to come back across the street as soon as the lights changed. Meanwhile, all those fake Hindu imbeciles in saffron robes continued to chant and dance behind him.
There was still time for me to flee. What made me hold my ground, I think, was this: the need to prove myself a gentleman. During the bad old days, when I had testified against him, people who wrote about us, speculating as to who was telling the truth and who was not, concluded for the most part that he was a real gentleman, descended from a long line of gentlemen, and that I was a person of Slavic background only pretending to be a gentleman. Honor and bravery and truthfulness, then, would mean everything to him and very little to me.
Other contrasts were pointed out, certainly. With every new edition of the papers and newsmagazines, seemingly, I became shorter and he became taller. My poor wife became more gross and foreign, and his wife became more of an American golden girl. His friends became more numerous and respectable, and mine couldn’t even be found under damp rocks anymore. But what troubled me most in my very bones was the idea that he was honorable and I was not. Thus, twenty-six years later, did this little Slavic jailbird hold his ground.
Across the avenue he came, the former Anglo-Saxon champion, a happy, ramshackle scarecrow now.
I was bewildered by his happiness. “What,” I asked myself, “can this wreck have to be so happy about?”
So there we were reunited, with the shopping-bag lady looking on and listening. He put down his sample case and he extended his right hand. He made a joke, echoing the meeting of Henry Morton Stanley and David Livingstone in Darkest Africa: “Walter F. Starbuck, I presume.”
And we might as well have been in Darkest Africa, for all anybody knew or cared about us anymore. Most people, if they remembered us at all, believed us dead, I suppose. And we had never been as significant in American

history as we had sometimes thought we were. We were, if I may be forgiven, farts in a windstorm—or, as the shopping-bag lady would have called us, “fats in a windstorm.”
Did I harbor any bitterness against him for having stolen my girl so long ago? No. Sarah and I had loved each other, but we would never have been happy as man and wife. We could never have gotten a sex life going. I had never persuaded her to take sex seriously. Leland Clewes had succeeded where I had failed—much to her grateful amazement, I am sure.
What tender memories did I have of Sarah? Much talk about human suffering and what could be done about it— and then infantile silliness for relief. We collected jokes for each other, to use when it was time for relief. We became addicted to talking to each other on the telephone for hours. Those talks were the most agreeable narcotic I have ever known. We became disembodied—like free-floating souls on the planet Vicuna. If there was a long silence, one or the other of us would end it with the start of a joke.
“What is the difference between an enzyme and a hormone?” she might ask me.
“I don’t know,” I would say.
“You can’t hear an enzyme,” she would say, and the silly jokes would go on and on—even though she had probably seen something horrible at the hospital that day.

13
I WAS ABOUT TO SAY to him gravely, watchfully but sincerely, “How are you, Leland? It is good to see you again.” But I never got to say it. The shopping-bag lady, whose voice was loud and piercing, cried out, “Oh, my God! Walter F. Starbuck! Is that really you?” I do not intend to reproduce her accent on the printed page.
I thought she was crazy. I thought that she would have parroted any name Clewes chose to hang on me. If he had called me “Bumptious Q. Bangwhistle,” I thought, she would have cried, “Oh, my God! Bumptious Q. Bangwhistle! Is that really you?”
Now she began to lean her shopping bags against my legs, as though I were a convenient fireplug. There were six of them, which I would later study at leisure. They were from the most expensive stores in town—Henri Bendel, Tiffany’s, Sloane’s. Bergdorf Goodman, Bloomingdale’s, Abercrombie and Fitch. All but Abercrombie and Fitch, incidentally, which would soon go bankrupt, were subsidiaries of The RAMJAC Corporation. Her bags contained mostly rags, pickings from garbage cans. Her most valuable possessions Were in her basketball shoes.
I tried to ignore her. Even as she entrapped me with her bags, I kept my gaze on the face of Leland Clewes. “You’re looking well,” I said.
“I’m feeling well,” he said. “And so is Sarah, you’ll be happy to know.”
“I’m glad to hear it,” I said. “She’s a very good girl.” Sarah was no girl anymore, of course.
Clewes told me now that she was still doing a little nursing, as a part-time thing.
“I’m glad,” I said.
To my horror, I felt as though a sick bat had dropped from the eaves of a building and landed on my wrist. The shopping-bag lady had taken hold of me with her filthy little hand.
“This is your wife?” he said.
“My what?” I said. He thought I had sunk so low that this awful woman and I were a pair! “I never saw her before in my life!” I said.
“Oh, Walter, Walter, Walter,” she keened, “how can you say such a thing?”
I pried her hand off me; but the instant I returned my attention to Clewes, she snapped it onto my wrist again.
“Pretend she isn’t here,” I said. “This is crazy. She has nothing to do with me. I will not let her spoil this moment, which means a great deal to me.”
“Oh, Walter, Walter, Walter,” she said, “what has become of you? You’re not the Walter F. Starbuck I knew.”
“That’s right,” I said, “because you never knew any Walter F. Starbuck, but this man did.” And I said to Clewes, “I suppose you know that I myself have spent time in prison now.”
“Yes,” he said. “Sarah and I were very sorry.”
“I was let out only yesterday morning,” I said.
“You have some trying days ahead,” he said. “Is there somebody to look after you?”
“I’ll look after you, Walter,” said the shopping-bag lady. She leaned closer to me to say that so fervently, and I was nearly suffocated by her body odor and her awful breath. Her breath was laden not only with the smell of bad teeth but, as I would later realize, with finely divided droplets of peanut oil. She had been eating nothing but peanut butter for years.
“You can’t take care of anybody!” I said to her.
“Oh—you’d be surprised what all I could do for you,” she said.
“Leland,” I said, “all I want to say to you is that I know what jail is now, and, God damn it, the thing I’m sorriest about in my whole life is that I had anything to do with sending you to jail.”
“Well,” he said, “Sarah and I have often talked about what we would like to say most to you.”

“I’m sure,” I said.
“And it’s this:” he said, “Thank you very much, Walter. My going to prison was the best thing that ever happened to Sarah and me.’ I’m not joking. Word of honor: It’s true.”
I was amazed. “How can that be?” I said.
“Because life is supposed to be a test,” he said. “If my life had kept going the way it was going, I would have arrived in heaven never having faced any problem that wasn’t as easy as pie to solve. Saint Peter would have had to say to me, ‘You never lived, my boy. Who can say what you are?’”
“I see,” I said.
“Sarah and I not only have love,” he said, “but we have love that has stood up to the hardest tests.”
“It sounds very beautiful,” I said.
“We would be proud to have you see it,” he said. “Could you come to supper sometime?”
“Yes—I suppose,” I said.
“Where are you staying?” he said.
“The Hotel Arapahoe,” I said.
“I thought they’d torn that down years ago,” he said.
“No,” I said.
“You’ll hear from us,” he said.
“I look forward to it,” I said.
“As you’ll see,” he said, “we have nothing in the way of material wealth; but we need nothing in the way of material wealth.”
“That’s intelligent,” I said.
“I’ll say this though:” he said, “The food is good. As you may remember, Sarah is a wonderful cook.”
“I remember,” I said.
And now the shopping-bag lady offered the first proof that she really did know a lot about me. “You’re talking about that Sarah Wyatt, aren’t you?” she said.
There was a silence among us, although the uproar of the metropolis went on and on. Neither Clewes nor I had mentioned Sarah’s maiden name.
I finally managed to ask her, woozy with shapeless misgivings, “How do you know that name?”
She became foxy and coquettish. “You think I don’t know you were two-timing me with her the whole time?” she said.
Given that much information, I no longer needed to guess who she was. I had slept with her during my senior year at Harvard, while still squiring the virginal Sarah Wyatt to parties and concerts and athletic events.
She was one of the four women I had ever loved. She was the first woman with whom I had had anything like a mature sexual experience.
She was the remains of Mary Kathleen O’Looney!

14
“I WAS HIS CIRCULATION MANAGER,” said Mary Kathleen to Leland Clewes very loudly. “Wasn’t I a good circulation manager, Walter?”
“Yes—you certainly were,” I said. That was how we met: She presented herself at the tiny office of The Bay State Progressive in Cambridge at the start of my senior year, saying that she would do absolutely anything I told her to do, as long as it would improve the condition of the working class. I made her circulation manager, put her in charge of handing out the paper at factory gates and along breadlines and so on. She had been a scrawny little thing back then, but tough and cheerful and highly visible because of her bright red hair. She was such a hater of capitalism, because her mother was one of the women who died of radium poisoning after working for the Wyatt Clock Company. Her father had gone blind after drinking wood alcohol while a night watchman in a shoepolish factory.
Now what was left of Mary Kathleen bowed her head, responded modestly to my having agreed that she had been a good circulation manager, and presented her pate to Leland Clewes and me. She had a bald spot about the size of a silver dollar. The tonsure that fringed it was sparse and white.
Leland Clewes would tell me later that he almost fainted. He had never seen a woman’s bald spot before.
It was too much for him. He closed his blue eyes and he turned away. When he manfully faced us again, he avoided looking directly at Mary Kathleen—-just as the mythological Perseus had avoided looking at the Gorgon’s head.
“We must get together soon,” he said. “Yes,” I said.
“You’ll be hearing from me soon,” he said. “I hope so,” I said.
“Must rush,” he said. “I understand,” I said. “Take care,” he said. “I will,” I said.
He was gone.
Mary Kathleen’s shopping bags were still banked around my legs. I was as immobilized and eye-catching as Saint Joan of Arc at the stake. Mary Kathleen still grasped my wrist, and she would not lower her voice.
“Now that I’ve found you, Walter,” she cried, “I’ll never let you go again!”
Nowhere in the world was this sort of theater being done anymore. For what it may be worth to modern impresarios: I can testify from personal experience that great crowds can still be gathered by melodrama, provided that the female in the piece speaks loudly and clearly.
“You used to tell me all the time how much you loved me, Walter,” she cried. “But then you went away, and I never heard from you again. Were you just lying to me?”
I may have made some responsive sound. “Bluh,” perhaps, or “fluh.”
“Look at me in the eye, Walter,” she said.
Sociologically, of course, this melodrama was as gripping as Uncle Tom’s Cabin before the Civil War. Mary Kathleen O’Looney wasn’t the only shopping-bag lady in the United States of America. There were tens of thousands of them in major cities throughout the country. Ragged regiments of them had been produced accidentally, and to no imaginable purpose, by the great engine of the economy. Another part of the machine was spitting out unrepentant murderers ten years old, and dope fiends and child batterers and many other bad things. People claimed to be investigating. Unspecified repairs were to be made at some future time.
Good-hearted people were meanwhile as sick about all these tragic by-products of the economy as they would

have been about human slavery a little more than a hundred years before. Mary Kathleen and I were a miracle that our audience must have prayed for again and again: the rescue of at least one shopping-bag lady by a man who knew her well.
Some people were crying. I myself was about to cry. “Hug her,” said a woman in the crowd.
I did so.
I found myself embracing a bundle of dry twigs that was wrapped in rags. That was when I myself began to cry. I was crying for the first time since I had found my wife dead in bed one morning—in my little brick bungalow in Chevy Chase, Maryland.

15
MY NOSE, THANK GOD, had conked out by then. Noses are merciful that way. They will report that something smells awful. If the owner of a nose stays around anyway, the nose concludes that the smell isn’t so bad after all. It shuts itself off, deferring to superior wisdom. Thus is it possible to eat Limburger cheese—or to hug the stinking wreckage of an old sweetheart at the corner of Fifth Avenue and Forty-second Street.
It felt for a moment as though Mary Kathleen had died in my arms. To be perfectly frank, that would have been all right with me. Where, after all, could I take her from there? What could be better than her receiving a hug from a man who had known her when she was young and beautiful, and then going to heaven right away?
It would have been wonderful. Then again, I would never have become executive vice-president of the Down Home Records Division of The RAMJAC Corporation. I might at this very moment be sleeping off a wine binge in the Bowery, while a juvenile monster soaked me in gasoline and touched me off with his Cricket lighter.
Mary Kathleen now spoke very softly. “God must have sent you,” she said. “There, there,” I said. I went on hugging her.
“There’s nobody I can trust anymore,” she said.
“Now, now,” I said.
“Everybody’s after me,” she said. “They want to cut off my hands.” “There, there,” I said.
“I thought you were dead,” she said.
“No, no,” I said.
“I thought everybody was dead but me,” she said. “There, there,” I said.
“I still believe in the revolution, Walter,” she said. “I’m glad,” I said.
“Everybody else lost heart,” she said. “I never lost heart.” “Good for you,” I said.
“I’ve been working for the revolution every day,” she said. “I’m sure,” I said.
“You’d be surprised,” she said.
“Get her a hot bath,” said somebody in the crowd.
“Get some food in her,” said somebody else.
“The revolution is coming, Walter—sooner than you know,” said Mary Kathleen.
“I have a hotel room where you can rest awhile,” I said. “I have a little money. Not much, but some.”
“Money,” she said, and she laughed. Her scornful laughter about money had not changed. It was exactly as it had been forty years before.
“Shall we go?” I said. “My room isn’t far from here.”
“I know a better place,” she said.
“Get her some One-a-Day vitamins,” said somebody in the crowd.
“Follow me, Walter,” said Mary Kathleen. She was growing strong again. It was Mary Kathleen who now separated herself from me, and not the other way around. She became raucous again. I picked up three of her bags, and she picked up the other three. Our ultimate destination, it would turn out, was the very top of the Chrysler Building, the quiet showroom of The American Harp Company up there. But first we had to get the crowd to part for

us, and she began to call people in our way “capitalist fats” and “bloated plutocrats” and “bloodsuckers” and all that again.
Her means of locomotion in her gargantuan basketball shoes was this: She barely lifted the shoes from the ground, shoving one forward and then the other, like cross-country skis, while her upper body and shopping bags swiveled wildly from side to side. But that oscillating old woman could go like the wind! I panted to keep up with her, once we got clear of the crowd. We were surely the cynosure of all eyes. Nobody had ever seen a shopping-bag lady with an assistant before.
When we got to Grand Central Station, Mary Kathleen said that we had to make sure we weren’t being followed. She led me up and down escalators, ramps, and stairways, looking over her shoulders for pursuers all the time. We scampered through the Oyster Bar three times. She brought us at last to an iron door at the end of a dimly lit corridor. We surely were all alone. Our hearts were beating hard.
When we had recovered our breaths, she said to me, “I am going to show you something you mustn’t tell anybody about.”
“I promise,” I said.
“This is our secret,” she said. “Yes,” I said.
I had assumed that we were as deep in the station as anyone could go. How wrong I was! Mary Kathleen opened the iron door on an iron staircase going down, down, down. There was a secret world as vast as Carlsbad Caverns below. It was used for nothing anymore. It might have been a sanctuary for dinosaurs. It had in fact been a repair shop for another family of extinct monsters—locomotives driven by steam.
Down the steps we went.
My God—what majestic machinery there must have been down there at one time! What admirable craftsmen must have worked there! In conformance with fire laws, I suppose, there were lightbulbs burning here and there. And there were little dishes of rat poison set around. But there were no other signs that anyone had been down there for years.
“This is my home, Walter,” she said.
“Your what?” I said.
“You wouldn’t want me sleeping outdoors, would you?” she said.
“No,” I said.
“Be glad, then,” she said, “that I have such a nice and private home.”
“I am,” I said.
“You not only talked to me—you hugged me,” she said. “That’s how I knew I could trust you.”
“Um,” I said.
“You’re not after my hands,” she said.
“No,” I said.
“You know there are millions of poor souls out on the street, looking for a toilet somebody will let them use?” she said.
“I suppose that’s true,” I said.
“Look at this,” she said. She led me into a chamber that contained row on row of toilets. “It’s good to know they’re here,” I said.
“You won’t tell anybody?” she said.
“No,” I said.
“I’m putting my life in your hands, telling you my secrets like this,” she said.
“I’m honored,” I said.
And then out of the catacombs we climbed. She led me through a tunnel under Lexington Avenue, and up a staircase into the lobby of the Chrysler Building. She skied across the floor to a waiting elevator, with me trotting behind. A guard shouted at us, but we got into the elevator before he could stop us. The doors shut in his angry face as Mary Kathleen punched the button for the topmost floor.
We had the car all to ourselves, and upward we flew. Within a trice the doors slithered open on a place of

unearthly beauty and peace within the building’s stainless-steel crown. I had often wondered what was up there. Now I knew. The crown came to a point seventy feet above us. Between us and the point, as I looked upward in awe, there was nothing but a lattice of girders and air, air, air.
“What a glorious waste of space!” I thought. But then I saw that there were tenants after all. Myriads of bright yellow little birds were perched on the girders, or flitting through the prisms of light admitted by the bizarre windows, by the great triangles of glass that pierced the crown.
The vast floor at whose edge we stood was carpeted in grassy green. There was a fountain splashing at its center. There were garden benches and statues everywhere, and here and there a harp.
As I have already said, this was the showroom of The American Harp Company, which had recently become a subsidiary of The RAMJAC Corporation. The company had occupied this space since the building opened in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-one. All the birds I saw, which were prothonotary warblers, were descended from a single pair released back then.
There was a Victorian gazebo near the elevator, which contained the desks of the salesman and his secretary. A woman was sobbing in there. What a morning it was for tears! What a book this is for tears!
The oldest man I had ever seen came tottering out of the gazebo. He wore a swallowtail coat and striped trousers and spats. He was the sole salesman, and had been since Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-one. He was the man who had released from the hot cage of his hands and into this enchanted space the first two prothonotary warblers. He was ninety-two years old! He looked like John D. Rockefeller at the end of his life, or like a mummy. The only moisture left in him, seemingly, was faint dew on the surface of his eyes. He was not entirely defenseless, however. He was president of a pistol club that shot at targets shaped like men on weekends, and he had a loaded Luger the size of a Doberman pinscher in his desk. He had been looking forward to a robbery for quite some time.
“Oh—it’s you,” he said to Mary Kathleen, and she said that, yes, it was.
She was accustomed to coming here almost every day and sitting for several hours. The understanding was that she was to get out of sight with her shopping bags, in case a customer came in. There was a further understanding, which Mary Kathleen had now violated.
“I thought I told you,” he said to her, “that you were never to bring anybody else with you, or even to tell anybody else how nice it was up here.”
Since I was carrying three shopping bags, he concluded that I was another derelict, a shopping-bag man.
“He isn’t a bum,” said Mary Kathleen. “He’s a Harvard man.”
He did not believe this for a minute. “I see,” he said, and he looked me up and down. He himself had never even graduated from grammar school, incidentally. There had been no laws against child labor when he was a boy, and he had gone to work in the Chicago factory of The American Harp Company at the age of ten. “I’ve heard that you can always tell a Harvard man,” he said, “but you can’t tell him much.”
“I never thought there was anything special about Harvard men,” I said.
“That makes two of us,” he said. He was being most unpleasant, and clearly wanted me out of there. “This is not the Salvation Army,” he said. This was a man born during the presidency of Grover Cleveland. Imagine that! He said to Mary Kathleen, “Really—I’m most disappointed in you, bringing somebody else along. Should we expect three tomorrow, and twenty the day after that? Christianity does have its limits, you know.”
I now made a blunder that would land me back in el calabozo before noon on what was to have been my first full day of freedom. “As a matter of fact,” I said, “I’m here on business.”
“You wish to buy a harp?” he said. “They’re seven thousand dollars and up, you know. How about a kazoo instead?”
“I was hoping you could advise me,” I said, “as to where I could buy clarinet parts—not whole clarinets, but just clarinet parts.” I was not serious about this. I was extrapolating a business fantasy from the contents of my bottom drawer at the Arapahoe.
The old man was secretly electrified. Thumbtacked to the bulletin board in the gazebo was a circular that advised him to call the police in case anyone expressed interest in buying or selling clarinet parts. As he would tell me later, he had stuck it up there months before—“like a lottery ticket bought in a moment of folly.” He had never expected to win. His name was Delmar Peale.
Delmar was nice enough later on to make me a present of the circular, which I hung on my office wall at RAMJAC. I became his superior in the RAMJAC family, since American Harp was a subsidiary of my division.

I was certainly no superior of his the first time we met, though. He played cat-and-mouse with me. “Many clarinet parts, or a few?” he asked cunningly.
“Quite a few, actually,” I said. “I realize that you yourself don’t handle clarinets—”
“You’ve come to the right place all the same,” he hastened to assure me. “I know everyone in the business. If you and Madam X would like to make yourselves comfortable, I would be glad to make some telephone calls.”
“You’re too kind,” I said.
“Not at all,” he said.
“Madam X,” incidentally, was the only name he had for Mary Kathleen. That was what she had told him her name was. She had simply barged in one day, trying to escape from people she thought were after her. He had worried a lot about shopping-bag ladies, and he was a practicing Christian, so he had let her stay.
Meanwhile, the sobbing in the gazebo was abating some.
Delmar conducted us to a bench far from the gazebo, so we could not hear him call the police. He had us sit down. “Comfy?” he said.
“Yes, thank you,” I said.
He rubbed his hands. “How about some coffee?” he said.
“It makes me too nervous,” said Mary Kathleen.
“With sugar and cream, if it’s not too much trouble,” I said.
“No trouble at all,” he said.
“What’s the trouble with Doris?” said Mary Kathleen. That was the name of the secretary who was crying in the gazebo. Her full name was Doris Kramm. She herself eighty-seven years old.
At my suggestion, People magazine recently did a story on Delmar and Doris as being almost certainly the oldest boss-and-secretary team in the world, and perhaps in all history. It was a cute story. One picture showed Delmar with his Luger, and quoted him to the effect that anybody who tried to rob The American Harp Company “... would be one unhappy robber pretty quick.”
He told Mary Kathleen now that Doris wept because she had had two hard blows in rapid succession. She had been notified on the previous afternoon that she was going to have to retire immediately, now that RAMJAC had taken over. The retirement age for all RAMJAC employees everywhere, except for supervisory personnel, was sixty-five. And then that morning, while she was cleaning out her desk, she got a telegram saying that her great- grandniece had been killed in a head-on collision after a high-school senior prom in Sarasota, Florida. Doris had no descendents of her own, he explained, so her collateral relatives meant a lot to her.
Delmar and Doris, incidentally, did almost no business up there, and continue to do almost no business up there. I was proud, when I became a RAMJAC executive, that American Harp Company harps were the finest harps in the world. You would have thought that the best harps would come from Italy or Japan or West Germany by now, with American craftsmanship having become virtually extinct. But no—musicians even in those countries and even in the Soviet Union agreed: Only an American Harp Company harp can cut the mustard. But the harp business is not and can never be a volume business, except in heaven, perhaps. So the profit picture, the bottom line, was ridiculous. It is so ridiculous that I recently undertook an investigation of why RAMJAC had ever acquired American Harp. I learned that it was in order to capture the incredible lease on the top of the Chrysler Building. The lease ran until the year Two-thousand and Thirty-one, at a rent of two hundred dollars a month! Arpad Leen wanted to turn the place into a restaurant.
That the company also owned a factory in Chicago with sixty-five, employees was a mere detail. If it could not be made to show a substantial profit within a year or two, RAMJAC would close it down.
Peace.

16
MARY KATHLEEN O’LOONEY was, of course, the legendary Mrs. Jack Graham, the majority stockholder in The RAMJAC Corporation. She had her inkpad and pens and writing paper in her basketball shoes. Those shoes were her bank vaults. Nobody could take them off of her without waking her up.
She would claim later that she had told me who she really was on the elevator.
I could only reply, “If I had heard you say that, Mary Kathleen, I surely would have remembered it.”
If I had known who she really was, all her talk about people who wanted to cut off her hands would have made a lot more sense. Whoever got her hands could pickle them and throw away the rest of her, and control The RAMJAC Corporation with just her fingertips. No wonder she was on the run. No wonder she dared not reveal her true identity anywhere.
No wonder she dared not-trust anybody. On this particular planet, where money mattered more than anything, the nicest person imaginable might suddenly get the idea of wringing her neck so that their loved ones might live in comfort. It would be the work of the moment—and easily forgotten as the years went by. Time flies.
She was so tiny and weak. Killing her and cutting off her hands would have been little more horrifying than what went on ten thousand times a day at a mechanized chicken farm. RAMJAC owns Colonel Sanders Kentucky Fried Chicken, of course. I have seen that operation as it looks backstage.
About my not having heard her say she was Mrs. Jack Graham on the elevator:
I do remember that I had trouble with my ears toward the top of the elevator ride, because of the sudden change in altitude. We shot up about a thousand feet, with no stops on the way. Also: Temporarily deaf or not, I had my conversational automatic pilot on. I was not thinking about what she was saying, or what I was saying, either. I thought that we were both so far outside the mainstream of human affairs that all we could do was comfort each other with animal sounds. I remember her saying at one point that she owned the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, and I thought I had not heard her right.
“I’m glad,” I said.
So, as I sat beside her on the bench in the harp showroom, she thought I had a piece of key information about her, which I did not have. And Delmar Peale had meanwhile called the police and had also sent Doris Kramm out, supposedly for coffee, but really to find a policeman out on the street somewhere.
As it happened, there was a small riot going on in the park adjacent to the United Nations, only three blocks away. Every available policeman was over there. Out-of-work white youths armed with baseball bats were braining men they thought were homosexuals. They threw one of them into the East River, who turned out to be the finance minister of Sri Lanka.
I would meet some of those youths later at the police station, and they would assume that I, too, was a homosexual. One of them exposed his private parts to me and said, “Hey, Pops—you want some of this? Come and get it. Yum, yum, yum,” and so on.
But my point is that the police could not come and get me for nearly an hour. So Mary Kathleen and I had a nice long talk. She felt safe in this place. She dared to be sane.
It was most touching. Only her body was decrepit. Her voice and the soul it implied might well have belonged still to what she used to be, an angrily optimistic eighteen-year-old.
“Everyone is going to be all right now,” she said to me in the showroom of The American Harp Company. “Something always told me that it would turn out this way. All’s well that ends well,” she said.
What a fine mind she had! What fine minds all of the four women I’ve loved have had! During the months I more or less lived with Mary Kathleen, she read all the books I had read or pretended to have read as a Harvard student. Those volumes had been chores to me, but they were a cannibal feast to Mary Kathleen. She read my books the way a young cannibal might eat the hearts of brave old enemies. Their magic would become hers. She said of my little

library one time: “the greatest books in the world, taught by the wisest men in the world at the greatest university in the world to the smartest students in the world.”
Peace.
And contrast Mary Kathleen, if you will, with my wife Ruth, the Ophelia of the death camps, who believed that even the most intelligent human beings were so stupid that they could only make things worse by speaking their minds. It was thinkers, after all, who had set up the death camps. Setting up a death camp, with its railroad sidings and its around-the-clock crematoria, was not something a moron could do. Neither could a moron explain why a death camp was ultimately humane.
Again: peace.
So there Mary Kathleen and I were—among all those harps. They are very strange-looking instruments, now that I think about them, and not very far from poor Ruth’s idea of civilization even in peace-time—impossible marriages between Greek columns and Leonardo da Vinci’s flying machines.
Harps are self-destructive, incidentally. When I found myself in the harp business at RAMJAC, I had hoped that American Harp had among its assets some wonderful old harps that would turn out to be as valuable as Stradivari’s and the Amatis’ violins. There was zero chance for this dream’s coming true. The tensions in a harp are so tremendous and unrelenting that it becomes unplayable after fifty years and belongs on a dump or in a museum.
I discovered something fascinating about prothonotary warblers, too. They are the only birds that are housebroken in captivity. You would think that the harps would have to be protected from bird droppings by canopies—but not at all! The warblers deposit their droppings in teacups that are set around. In a state of nature, evidently, they deposit their droppings in other birds’ nests. That is what they think the teacups are.
Live and learn!
But back to Mary Kathleen and me among all those harps—with the prothonotary warblers overhead and the police on their way:
“After my husband died, Walter,” she said, “I became so unhappy and lost that I turned to alcohol.” That husband would have been Jack Graham, the reclusive engineer who had founded The RAMJAC Corporation. He had not built the company from scratch. He had been born a multimillionaire. So far as I knew, of course, she might have been talking about a plumber or a truck driver or a college professor or anyone.
She told about going to a private sanitarium in Louisville, Kentucky, where she was given shock treatments. These blasted all her memories from Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-five until Nineteen-hundred and Fifty-five. That would explain why she thought she could still trust me now. Her memories of how callously I had left her, and of my later betrayal of Leland Clewes and all that, had been burned away. She was able to believe that I was still the fiery idealist I had been in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-five. She had missed my part in Watergate. Everybody had missed my part in Watergate.
“I had to make up a lot of memories,” she went on, “just to fill up all the empty spaces. There had been a war, I knew, and I remembered how much you hated fascism. I saw you on a beach somewhere—on your back, in a uniform, with a rifle, and with the water washing gently around you. Your eyes were wide open, Walter, because you were dead. You were staring straight up at the sun.”
We were silent for a moment. A yellow bird far above us warbled as though its heart would break. The song of a prothonotary warbler is notoriously monotonous, as I am the first to admit. I am not about to risk the credibility of my entire tale by claiming that prothonotary warblers rival the Boston Pops Orchestra with their songs. Still—they are capable of expressing heartbreak—within strict limits, of course.
“I’ve had the same dream of myself,” I said. “Many’s the time, Mary Kathleen, that I’ve wished it were true.”
“No! No! No!” she protested. “Thank God you’re still alive! Thank God there’s somebody still alive who cares what happens to this country. I thought maybe I was the last one. I’ve wandered this city for years now, Walter, saying to myself, ‘They’ve all died off, the ones who cared.’ And then there you were.”
“Mary Kathleen,” I said, “you should know that I just got out of prison.”
“Of course you did!” she said. “All the good people go to prison all the time. Oh; thank God you’re still alive! We will remake this country and then the world. I couldn’t do it by myself, Walter.”
“No—I wouldn’t think so,” I said.
“I’ve just been hanging on for dear life,” she said. “I haven’t been able to do anything but survive. That’s how alone I’ve been. I don’t need much help, but I do need some.”

“I know the problem,” I said.
“I can still see enough to write, if I write big,” she said, “but I can’t read the stories in newspapers anymore. My eyes—” She said she sneaked into bars and department stores and motel lobbies to listen to the news on television, but that the sets were almost never tuned to the news. Sometimes she would hear a snatch of news on somebody’s portable radio, but the person owning it usually switched to music as soon as the news began.
Remembering the news I had heard that morning, about the police dog that ate a baby, I told her that she wasn’t really missing much.
“How can I make sensible plans,” she said, “if I don’t know what’s going on?”
“You can’t,” I said.
“How can you base a revolution on Lawrence Welk and Sesame Street and All in the Family?” she said. All these shows were sponsored by RAMJAC.
“You can’t,” I said.
“I need solid information,” she said.
“Of course you do,” I said. “We all do.”
“It’s all such crap,” she said. “I find this magazine called People in garbage cans,” she said, “but it isn’t about people. It’s about crap.”
This all seemed so pathetic to me: that a shopping-bag lady hoped to plan her scuttlings about the city and her snoozes among ash cans on the basis of what publications and radio and television could tell her about what was really going on.
It seemed pathetic to her, too. “Jackie Onassis and Frank Sinatra and the Cookie Monster and Archie Bunker make their moves,” she said, “and then I study what they have done, and then I decide what Mary Kathleen O’Looney had better do.
“But now I have you,” she said. “You can be my eyes—and my brains!”
“Your eyes, maybe,” I said. “I haven’t distinguished myself in the brains department recently.”
“Oh—if only Kenneth Whistler were alive, too,” she said.
She might as well have said, “If only Donald Duck were alive, too.” Kenneth Whistler was a labor organizer who had been my idol in the old days—but I felt nothing about him now, had not thought about him for years.
“What a trio we would make,” she went on. “You and me and Kenneth Whistler!”
Whistler would have been a bum, too, by now, I supposed—if he hadn’t died in a Kentucky mine disaster in Nineteen-hundred and Forty-one. He had insisted on being a worker as well as a labor organizer, and would have found modern union officials with their soft, pink palms intolerable. I had shaken hands with him. His palm had felt like the back of a crocodile. The lines in his face had had so much coal dust worked into them that they looked like black tattoos. Strangely enough this was a Harvard man—the class of Nineteen-hundred and Twenty-one.
“Well,” said Mary Kathleen, “at least there’s still us—and now we can start to make our move.” “I’m always open to suggestions,” I said.
“Or maybe it isn’t worth it,” she said.
She was talking about rescuing the people of the United States from their economy, but I thought she was talking about life in general. So I said of life in general that it probably was worth it, but that it did seem to go on a little too long. My life would have been a masterpiece, for example, if I had died on a beach with a fascist bullet between my eyes.
“Maybe people are just no good anymore,” she said. “They all look so mean to me. They aren’t like they were during the Depression. I don’t see anybody being kind to anybody anymore. Nobody will even speak to me.”
She asked me if I had seen any acts of kindness anywhere. I reflected on this and I realized that I had encountered almost nothing but kindness since leaving prison. I told her so.
“Then it’s the way I look,” she said. This was surely so. There was a limit to how much reproachful ugliness most people could bear to look at, and Mary Kathleen and all her shopping-bag sisters had exceeded that limit.
She was eager to know about individual acts of kindness toward me, to have it confirmed that Americans could still be good-hearted. So I was glad to tell her about my first twenty-four hours as a free man, starting with the kindness shown to me by Clyde Carter, the guard, and then by Dr. Robert Fender, the supply clerk and science- fiction writer. After that, of course, I was given a ride in a limousine by Cleveland Lawes.

Mary Kathleen exclaimed over these people, repeated their names to make sure she had them right. “They’re saints!” she said. “So there are still saints around!”
Thus encouraged, I embroidered on the hospitality offered to me by Dr. Israel Edel, the night clerk at the Arapahoe, and then by the employees at the Coffee Shop of the Hotel Royalton on the following morning. I was not able to give her the name of the owner of the shop, but only the physical detail that set him apart from the populace. “He had a French-fried hand,” I said.
“The saint with the French-fried hand,” she said wonderingly.
“Yes,” I said, “and you yourself saw a man I thought was the worst enemy I had in the world. He was the tall, blue-eyed man with the sample case. You heard him say that he forgave me for everything I had done, and that I should have supper with him soon.”
“Tell me his name again,” she said.
“Leland Clewes,” I said.
“Saint Leland Clewes,” she said reverently. “See how much you’ve helped me already? I never could have found out about all these good people for myself.” Then she performed a minor mnemonic miracle, repeating all the names in chronological order. “Clyde Carter, Dr. Robert Fender, Cleveland Lawes, Israel Edel, the man with the French- fried hand, and Leland Clewes.”
Mary Kathleen took off one of her basketball shoes. It wasn’t the one containing the inkpad and her pens and paper and her will and all that. The shoe she took off was crammed with memorabilia. There were hypocritical love letters from me, as I’ve said. But she was particularly eager for me to see a snapshot of what she called “... my two favorite men.”
It was a picture of my one-time idol, Kenneth Whistler, the Harvard-educated labor organizer, shaking hands with a small and goofy-looking college boy. The boy was myself. I had ears like a loving cup.
That was when the police finally came clumping in to get me.
“I’ll rescue you, Walter,” said Mary Kathleen. “Then we’ll rescue the world together.”
I was relieved to be getting away from her, frankly. I tried to seem regretful about our parting. “Take care of yourself, Mary Kathleen,” I said. “It looks like this is goodbye.”

17
I HUNG THAT SNAPSHOT of Kenneth Whistler and myself, taken in the autumn of Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-five, dead center in the Great Depression, on my office wall at RAMJAC—next to the circular about stolen clarinet parts. It was taken by Mary Kathleen, with my bellows camera, on the morning after we first heard Whistler speak. He had come all the way to Cambridge from Harlan County, Kentucky, where he was a miner and a union organizer, to address a rally whose purpose was to raise money and sympathy for the local chapter of the International Brotherhood of Abrasives and Adhesives Workers.
The union was run by communists then. It is run by gangsters now. As a matter of fact, the start of my prison sentence overlapped with the end of one being served at Finletter by the lifetime president of the I.B.A.A.W. His twenty-three-year-old daughter was running the union from her villa in the Bahamas while he was away. He was on the telephone to her all the time. He told me that the membership was almost entirely black and Hispanic now. It was lily-white back in the thirties—Scandinavians mostly. I don’t think a black or Hispanic would have been allowed to join back in the good old days.
Times change.
Whistler spoke at night. On the afternoon before he spoke, I made love to Mary Kathleen O’Looney for the first time. It was mixed up in our young minds, somehow, with the prospect of hearing and perhaps even touching a genuine saint. How better to present ourselves to him or to any holy person, I suppose, than as Adam and Eve— smelling strongly of apple juice?
Mary Kathleen and I made love in the apartment of an associate professor of anthropology named Arthur von Strelitz. His specialty was the headhunters of the Solomon Islands. He spoke their language and respected their taboos. They trusted him. He was unmarried. His bed was unmade. His apartment was on the third floor of a frame house on Brattle Street.
A footnote to history: Not only that house, but that very apartment would be used later as a set in a very popular motion picture called Love Story. It was released during my early days with the Nixon administration. My wife and I went to see it when it came to Chevy Chase. It was a made-up story about a wealthy Anglo-Saxon student who married a poor Italian student, much against his father’s wishes. She died of cancer. The aristocratic father was played brilliantly by Ray Milland. He was the best thing in the movie. Ruth cried all through the movie. We sat in the back row of the theater for two reasons: so I could smoke and so there wouldn’t be anybody behind her to marvel at how fat she was. But I could not really concentrate on the story, because I knew the apartment where so much of it was happening so well. I kept waiting for Arthur von Strelitz or Mary Kathleen O’Looney or even me to appear.
Small world.
Mary Kathleen and I had the place for a weekend. Von Strelitz had given me the key. He had then gone to visit some other German émigré friends on Cape Ann. He must have been about thirty then. He seemed old to me. He was born into an aristocratic family in Prussia. He was lecturing at Harvard when Hitler became dictator of Germany in the spring of Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-three. He declined to go home. He applied for American citizenship instead. His father, who never communicated with him in any way, would command a corps of S.S. and die of pneumonia during the Siege of Leningrad. I know how his father died, since there was testimony about his father at the War Crimes Trials in Nuremberg, where I was in charge of housekeeping.
Again: small world.
His father, acting on written orders from Martin Bormann, who was tried in absentia in Nuremberg, caused to be executed all persons, civilian and military, taken prisoner during the siege. The intent was to demoralize the defenders of Leningrad. Leningrad, incidentally, was younger than New York City. Imagine that! Imagine a famous European city, full of imperial treasures and worth besieging, and yet much younger than New York.
Arthur von Strelitz would never learn how his father died. He himself would be rowed ashore from an American

submarine in the Solomon Islands as a spy, while they were still occupied by the Japanese. He would never be heard of again.
Peace.
He thought it, was urgent, I remember, that mankind and womankind be defined. Otherwise, he was sure, they were doomed forever to be defined by the needs of institutions. He had mainly factories and armies in mind.
He was the only man I ever knew who wore a monocle.
Now Mary Kathleen O’Looney, age eighteen, lay in his bed. We had just made love. It would be very pretty to paint her as naked now—a pink little body. But I never saw her naked. She was modest. Never could I induce her to take off all her clothes.
I myself stood stark naked at a window, with my private parts just below the sill. I felt like the great god Thor.
“Do you love me, Walter?” Mary Kathleen asked my bare backside.
What could I reply but this: “Of course I do.”
There Was a knock on the door. I had told my coeditor at The Bay State Progressive where I could be found in case of emergency, “Who is it?” I said.
There was a sound like a little gasoline engine on the other side of the door. It was Alexander Hamilton McCone, my mentor, who had decided to come to Cambridge unannounced—to see what sort of life I was leading on his money. He sounded like a motor because of his stammer. He stammered because of the Cuyahoga Massacre in Eighteen-hundred and Ninety-four. He was trying to say his own name.

18
I HAD SOMEHOW NEGLECTED to tell him that I had become a communist.
Now he had found out about that. He had come first to my room in Adams House, where he was told that I was most likely at The Progressive. He had gone to The Progressive and had ascertained what sort of publication it was and that I was its coeditor. Now he was outside the door with a copy folded under his arm.
I remained calm. Such was the magic of having emptied my seminal vesicles so recently.
Mary Kathleen, obeying my silent arm signals, hid herself in the bathroom. I slipped on a robe belonging to von Strelitz. He had brought it home from the Solomon Islands. It appeared to be made of shingles, with wreaths of feathers at its collar and cuffs.
Thus was I clad when I opened the door and said to old Mr. McCone, who was in his early sixties then, “Come in, come in.”
He was so angry with me that he could only continue to make those motor sounds: “bup-bup-bup-bup-bup ...” But he meanwhile did a grotesque pantomime of how repulsed he was by the paper, whose front-page cartoon showed a bloated capitalist who looked just like him; by my costume; by the unmade bed; by the picture of Karl Marx on von Strelitz’s wall.
Out he went again, slamming the door behind him. He was through with me!
Thus did my childhood end at last. I had become a man.
And it was as a man that I went that night, with Mary Kathleen on my arm, to hear Kenneth Whistler speak at the rally for my comrades in the International Brotherhood of Abrasives and Adhesives Workers.
How could I be so serene, so confident? My tuition for the year had already been paid, so I would graduate. I was about to get a full scholarship to Oxford. I had a superb wardrobe in good repair. I had been saving most of my allowance, so that I had a small fortune in the bank.
If I had to, I could always borrow money from Mother, God rest her soul.
What a daring young man I was!
What a treacherous young man I was! I already knew that I would abandon Mary Kathleen at the end of the academic year. I would write her a few love letters and then fall silent after that. She was too low class.
Whistler had a big bandage over one temple and his right arm was in a plaster cast that night. This was a Harvard graduate, mind you, and from a good family in Cincinnati. He was a Buckeye, like me. Mary Kathleen and I supposed that he had been beat up by the forces of evil yet again—by the police or the National Guard, or by goons of organizers of yellow-dog unions.
I held Mary Kathleen’s hand.
Nobody had ever told her he loved her before.
I was wearing a suit and a necktie, and so were most of the men there. We wanted to show that we were as decent and sober citizens as anyone. Kenneth Whistler might have been a businessman. He had even found time to shine his shoes.
Those used to be important symbols of self-respect: shined shoes.
Whistler began his speech by making fun of his bandages. “The Spirit of Seventy-six,” he said.
Everybody laughed and laughed, although the occasion was surely not a happy one. All the members of the union had been fired about a month before—for joining a union. They were makers of grinding wheels, and there was only one company in the area that could use their skills. That was the Johannsen Grinder Company, and that was the company that had fired them. They were specialized potters, essentially, shaping soft materials and then firing them in kilns. The fathers or grandfathers of most of them had actually been potters in Scandinavia, who were brought to this country to learn this new specialty.

The rally took place in a vacant store in Cambridge. Appropriately enough, the folding chairs had been contributed by a funeral home. Mary Kathleen and I were in the first row.
Whistler, it turned out, had been injured in a routine mining accident. He said he had been working as “a robber,” taking out supporting pillars of coal from a tunnel where the seam had otherwise been exhausted. Something had fallen on him.
And he went seamlessly from talk of such dangerous work in such a dark place to a recollection of a tea dance at the Ritz fifteen years before, where a Harvard classmate named Nils Johannsen had been caught using loaded dice in a crap game in the men’s room. This was the same person who was now the president of Johannsen Grinder, who had fired all these workers. Johannsen’s grandfather had started the company. He said that Johannsen had had his head stuck in a toilet bowl at the Ritz, and that the hope was that he would never use loaded dice again.
“But here he is,” said Whistler, “using loaded dice again.”
He said that Harvard could be held responsible for many atrocities, including the executions of Sacco and Vanzetti, but that it was innocent of having produced Nils Johannsen. “He never attended a lecture, never wrote a paper, never read a book while he was there,” he said. “He was asked to leave at the end of his sophomore year.
“Oh, I pity him,” he said. “I even understand him. How else could he ever amount to anything if he did not use loaded dice? How has he used loaded dice with you? The laws that say he can fire anybody who stands up for the basic rights of workers—those are loaded dice. The policemen who will protect his property rights but not your human rights—those are loaded dice.”
Whistler asked the fired workers how much Johannsen actually knew or cared about grinding wheels. How shrewd this was! The way to befriend working people in those days, and to get them to criticize their society as brilliantly as any philosopher, was to get them to talk about the one subject on which they were almost arrogantly well-informed: their work.
It was something to hear. Worker after worker testified that Johannsen’s father and grandfather had been mean bastards, too, but that they at least knew how to run a factory. Raw materials of the highest quality arrived on time in their day—machinery was properly maintained, the heating plant and the toilets worked, bad workmanship was punished and good workmanship was rewarded, no defective grinding wheel ever reached a customer, and on and on.
Whistler asked them if one of their own number could run the factory better than Nils Johannsen did. One man spoke for them all on that subject: “God, yes,” he said, “anyone here.”
Whistler asked him if he thought it was right that a person could inherit a factory.
The man’s considered answer was this: “Not if he’s afraid of the factory and everybody in it—no. No, siree.”
This piece of groping wisdom impresses me still. A sensible prayer people could offer up from time to time, it seems to me, might go something like this: “Dear Lord—never put me in the charge of a frightened human being.”
Kenneth Whistler promised us that the time was at hand for workers to take over their factories and to run them for the benefit of mankind. Profits that now went to drones and corrupt politicians would go to those who worked, and to the old and the sick and the orphaned. All people who could work would work. There would be only one social class—the working class. Everyone would take turns doing the most unpleasant work, so that a doctor, for example, might be expected to spend a week out of each year as a garbage man. The production of luxury goods would stop until the basic needs of every citizen were met. Health care would be free. Food would be cheap and nourishing and plentiful. Mansions and hotels and office buildings would be turned into small apartments, until everyone was decently housed. Dwellings would be assigned by means of a lottery. There would be no more wars and eventually no more national boundaries, since everyone in the world would belong to the same class with identical interests—the interests of the working class.
And on and on.
What a spellbinder he was!
Mary Kathleen whispered in my ear. “You’re going to be just like him, Walter.” “I’ll try,” I said. I had no intention of trying.
The most embarrassing thing to me about this autobiography, surely, is its unbroken chain of proofs that I was never a serious man. I have been in a lot of trouble over the years, but that was all accidental. Never have I risked my life, or even my comfort, in the service of mankind. Shame on me.
People who had heard Kenneth Whistler speak before begged him to tell again about leading the pickets outside Charlestown Prison when Sacco and Vanzetti were executed. And it seems, strange to me now that I have to explain

who Sacco and Vanzetti were. I recently asked young Israel Edel at RAMJAC, the former night clerk at the Arapahoe, what he knew about Sacco and Vanzetti, and he told me confidently that they were rich, brilliant thrill- killers from Chicago. He had them confused with Leopold and Loeb.
Why should I find this unsettling? When I was a young man, I expected the story of Sacco and Vanzetti to be retold as often and as movingly, to be as irresistible, as the story of Jesus Christ some day. Weren’t modern people, if they were to marvel creatively at their own lifetimes, I thought, entitled to a Passion like Sacco and Vanzetti’s, which ended in an electric chair?
As for the last days of Sacco and Vanzetti as a modern Passion: As on Golgotha, three lower-class men were executed at the same time by a state. This time, though, not just one of the three was innocent. This time two of the three were innocent.
The guilty man was a notorious thief and killer named Celestino Madeiros, convicted of a separate crime. As the end drew near, he confessed to the murders for which Sacco and Vanzetti had been convicted, too.
Why?
“I seen Sacco’s wife come here with the kids, and I felt sorry for the kids,” he said. Imagine those lines spoken by a good actor in a modern Passion Play.
Madeiros died first. The lights of the prison dimmed three times.
Sacco died next. Of the three, he was the only family man. The actor portraying him would have to project a highly intelligent man who, since English was his second language and since he was not clever with languages, would not trust himself to say anything complicated to the witnesses as he was strapped into the electric chair.
“Long live anarchy,” he said. “Farewell, my wife, and child, and all my friends,” he said. “Good evening, gentlemen,” he said. “Farewell, Mother,” he said. This was a shoemaker. The lights of the prison dimmed three times.
Vanzetti was the last. He sat down in the chair in which Madeiros and Sacco had died before anyone could indicate that this was what he was expected to do. He began to speak to the witnesses before anyone could tell him that he was free to do this. English was his second language, too, but he could make it do whatever he pleased.
Listen to this:
“I wish to tell you,” he said, “that I am an innocent man. I never committed any crime, but sometimes some sin. I am innocent of all crime—not only this one, but all crime. I am an innocent man.” He had been a fish peddler at the time of his arrest.
“I wish to forgive some people for what they are now doing to me,” he said. The lights of the prison dimmed three times.
The story yet again:
Sacco and Vanzetti never killed anybody. They arrived in America from Italy, not knowing each other, in Nineteen-hundred and Eight. It was the same year in which my parents arrived.
Father was nineteen. Mother was twenty-one.
Sacco was seventeen. Vanzetti was twenty. American employers at that time wanted the country to be flooded with labor that was cheap and easily cowed, so that they could keep wages down.
Vanzetti would say later, “In the immigration station, I had my first surprise. I saw the steerage passengers handled by the officials like so many animals. Not a word of kindness, of encouragement, to lighten the burden of tears that rest heavily upon the newly arrived on American shores.”
Father and Mother used to tell me much the same thing. They, too, were made to feel like fools who had somehow gone to great pains to deliver themselves to a slaughterhouse.
My parents were recruited at once by an agent of the Cuyahoga Bridge and Iron Company in Cleveland. He was instructed to hire only blond Slavs, Mr. McCone once told me, on his father’s theory that blonds would have the mechanical ingenuity and robustness of Germans, but tempered with the passivity of Slavs. The agent was to pick up factory workers, and a few presentable domestic servants for the various McCone households, as well. Thus did my parents enter the servant class.
Sacco and Vanzetti were not so lucky. There was no broker in human machinery who had a requisition for shapes like theirs. “Where was I to go? What was I to do?” wrote Vanzetti. “Here was the promised land. The elevated rattled by and did not answer. The automobiles and the trolleys sped by heedless of me.” So he and Sacco, still separately and in order not to starve to death, had to begin at once to beg in broken English for any sort of work at

any wage—going from door to door.
Time passed.
Sacco, who had been a shoemaker in Italy, found himself welcome in a shoe factory in Milford, Massachusetts, a town where, as chance would have it, Mary Kathleen O’Looney’s mother was born. Sacco got himself a wife and a house with a garden. They had a son named Dante and a daughter named Inez. Sacco worked six days a week, ten hours each day. He also found time to speak out and give money and take part in demonstrations for workers on strike for better wages and more humane treatment at work and so on. He was arrested for such activities in Nineteen-hundred and Sixteen.
Vanzetti had no trade and so went from job to job—in restaurants, in a quarry, in a steel mill, in a rope factory. He was an ardent reader. He studied Marx and Darwin and Hugo and Gorki and Tolstoi and Zola and Dante. That much he had in common with Harvard men. In Nineteen-hundred and Sixteen he led a strike against the rope factory, which was The Plymouth Cordage Company in Plymouth, Massachusetts, now a subsidiary of RAMJAC. He was blacklisted by places of work far and wide after that, and became a self-employed peddler of fish to survive.
And it was in Nineteen-hundred and Sixteen that Sacco and Vanzetti came to know each other well. It became evident to both of them, thinking independently, but thinking always of the brutality of business practices, that the battlefields of World War One were simply additional places of hideously dangerous work, where a few men could supervise the wasting of millions of lives in the hopes of making money. It was clear to them, too, that America would soon become involved. They did not wish to be compelled to work in such factories in Europe, so they both joined the same small group of Italian-American anarchists that went to Mexico until the war was over.
Anarchists are persons who believe with all their hearts that governments are enemies of their own people.
I find myself thinking even now that the story of Sacco and Vanzetti may yet enter the bones of future generations. Perhaps it needs to be told only a few more times. If so, then the flight into Mexico will be seen by one and all as yet another expression of a very holy sort of common sense.
Be that as it may: Sacco and Vanzetti returned to Massachusetts after the war, fast friends. Their sort of common sense, holy, or not, and based on books Harvard men read routinely and without ill effects, had always seemed contemptible to most of their neighbors. Those same neighbors, and those who liked to guide their destinies without much opposition, now decided to be terrified by that common sense, especially when it was possessed by the foreign-born.
The Department of Justice drew up secret lists of foreigners who made no secret whatsoever about how unjust and self-deceiving and ignorant and greedy they thought so many of the leaders were in the so-called “Promised Land.” Sacco and Vanzetti were on the list. They were shadowed by government spies.
A printer named Andrea Salsedo, who was a friend of Vanzetti’s, was also on the list. He was arrested in New York City by federal agents on unspecified charges, and held incommunicado for eight weeks. On May third of Nineteen-hundred and Twenty, Salsedo fell or jumped or was pushed out of the fourteenth-story window of an office maintained by the Department of Justice.
Sacco and Vanzetti organized a meeting that was to demand an investigation of the arrest and death of Salsedo. It was scheduled for May ninth in Brockton, Massachusetts, Mary Kathleen O’Looney’s home town. Mary Kathleen was then six years old. I was seven.
Sacco and Vanzetti were arrested for dangerous radical activities before the meeting could take place. Their crime was the possession of leaflets calling for the meeting. The penalities could be stiff fines and up to a year in jail.
But then they were suddenly charged with two unsolved murders, too. Two payroll guards had been shot dead during a robbery in South Braintree, Massachusetts, about a month before.
The penalties for that, of course, would be somewhat stiffer, would be two painless deaths in the same electric chair.

19
VANZETTI, FOR GOOD MEASURE, was also charged with an attempted payroll robbery in Bridgewater, Massachusetts. He was tried and convicted. Thus was he transmogrified from a fish peddler into a known criminal before he and Sacco were tried for murder.
Was Vanzetti guilty of this lesser crime? Possibly so, but it did not matter much. Who said it did not matter much? The judge who tried the case said it did not matter much. He was Webster Thayer, a graduate of Dartmouth College and a descendent of many fine New England families. He told the jury, “This man, although he may not have actually committed the crime attributed to him, is nevertheless morally culpable, because he is the enemy of our existing institutions.”
Word of honor: This was said by a judge in an American court of law. I take the quotation from a book at hand: Labor’s Untold Story, by Richard O. Boyer and Herbert M. Morais. (United Front: San Francisco, 1955.)
And then this same Judge Thayer got to try Sacco and the known criminal Vanzetti for murder. They were found guilty about one year after their arrest—in July of Nineteen-hundred and Twenty-one, when I was eight years old.
They were finally electrocuted when I was fifteen. If I heard anybody in Cleveland say anything about it, I have forgotten now.
I talked to a messenger boy in an elevator in the RAMJAC Building the other morning. He was about my age. I asked him if he remembered anything about the execution when he was a boy. He said that, yes, he had heard his father say he was sick and tired of people talking about Sacco and Vanzetti all the time, and that he was glad it was finally over with.
I asked him what line of work his father had been in.
“He was a bank president in Montpelier, Vermont,” he said. This was an old man in a war-surplus United States Army overcoat.
Al Capone, the famous Chicago gangster, thought Sacco and Vanzetti should have been executed. He, too, believed that they were enemies of the American way of thinking about America. He was offended by how ungrateful to America these fellow Italian immigrants were.
According to Labor’s Untold Story, Capone said, “Bolshevism is knocking at our gates.... We must keep the worker away from red literature and red ruses.”
Which reminds me of a story written by Dr. Robert Fender, my friend back in prison. The story was about a planet where the worst crime was ingratitude. People were executed all the time for being ungrateful. They were executed the vay people used to be executed in Czechoslovakia. They were defenestrated. They were thrown out of altitudinous windows.
The hero in Fender’s story was finally thrown out of a window for ingratitude. His last words, as he went sailing out of a window thirty floors up, were these: “Thanks a miiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiillionnnnnnnnn!”
Before Sacco and Vanzetti could be executed for ingratitude in the Massachusetts style, however, huge crowds turned out in protest all over the world. The fish peddler and the shoemaker had become planetary celebrities.
“Never in our full life,” said Vanzetti, “could we hope to do such work for tolerance, for justice, for man’s understanding of man, as now we do by accident.”
If this were done as a modern Passion Play, the actors playing the authorities, the Pontius Pilates, would still have to express scorn for the opinions of the mob. But they would be in favor rather than against the death penalty this time.
And they would never wash their hands.
They were in fact so proud of what they were about to do that they asked a committee composed of three of the wisest, most respected, most fair-minded and impartial men within the boundaries of the state to say to the world whether or not justice was about to be done.

It was only this part of the Sacco and Vanzetti story that Kenneth Whistler chose to tell—that night so long ago, when Mary Kathleen and I held hands while he spoke.
He dwelt most scornfully on the resonant credentials of the three wise men.
One was Robert Grant, a retired probate judge, who knew what the laws were and how they were meant to work. The chairman was the president of Harvard, and he would still be president when I became a freshman. Imagine that. He was A. Lawrence Lowell. The other, who according to Whistler “... knew a lot about electricity, if nothing else,” was Samuel W. Stratton, the president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
During their deliberations, they received thousands of telegrams, some in favor of the executions, but most opposed. Among the telegraphers were Romain Rolland, George Bernard Shaw, Albert Einstein, John Galsworthy, Sinclair Lewis, and H. G. Wells.
The triumvirate declared at last that it was clear to them that, if Sacco and Vanzetti were electrocuted, justice would be done.
So much for the wisdom of even the wisest human beings.
And I am now compelled to wonder if wisdom has ever existed or can ever exist. Might wisdom be as impossible in this particular universe as a perpetual-motion machine?
Who was the wisest man in the Bible, supposedly—wiser even, we can suppose, than the president of Harvard? He was King Solomon, of course. Two women claiming the same baby appeared before Solomon, asking him to apply his legendary wisdom to their case. He suggested cutting the baby in two.
And the wisest men in Massachusetts said that Sacco and Vanzetti should die.
When their decision was rendered, my hero Kenneth Whistler was in charge of pickets before the Massachusetts State House in Boston, by his own account. It was raining.
“Nature sympathized,” he said, looking straight at Mary Kathleen and me in the front row. He laughed.
Mary Kathleen and I did not laugh with him. Neither did anybody else in the audience. His laugh was a chilling laugh about how little Nature ever cares about what human beings think is going on.
And Whistler kept his pickets before the State House for ten more days, until the night of the execution. Then he led them through the winding streets and across the bridge to Charlestown, where the prison was. Among his pickets were Edna St. Vincent Millay and John Dos Passos and Heywood Broun.
National Guardsmen and police were waiting for them. There were machine gunners on the walls, with their guns aimed out at the general populace, the people who wanted Pontius Pilate to be merciful.
And Kenneth Whistler had with him a heavy parcel. It was an enormous banner, long and narrow and rolled up tight. He had had it made that morning.
The prison lights began their dimming.
When they had dimmed nine times, Whistler and a friend hurried to the funeral parlor where the bodies of Sacco and Vanzetti were to be displayed. The state had no further use for the bodies. They had become the property of relatives and friends again.
Whistler told us that two pairs of sawhorses had been set up in the front room of the funeral parlor, awaiting the coffins. Now Whistler and his friend unfurled their banner, and they nailed it to the wall over the sawhorses.
On the banner were painted the words that the man who had sentenced Sacco and Vanzetti to death, Webster Thayer, had spoken to a friend soon after he passed the sentence:
did you see what i did to those anarchist bastards the other day?

20
SACCO AND VANZETTI never lost their dignity—never cracked up. Walter F. Starbuck finally did.
I seemed to hold up quite well when I was arrested in the showroom of The American Harp Company. When old Delmar Peale showed the two policemen the circular about the stolen clarinet parts, when he explained what I was to be arrested for, I even smiled. I had the perfect alibi, after all: I had been in prison for the past two years.
When I told them that, though, it did not relax them as much as I had hoped. They decided that I was perhaps more of a desperado than they had at first supposed.
The police station was in an uproar when we arrived. Television crews and newspaper reporters were trying to get at the young men who had rioted in the gardens of the United Nations, who had thrown the finance minister of Sri Lanka into the East River. The Sri Lankan had not been found yet, so it was assumed that the rioters would be charged with murder.
Actually, the Sri Lankan would be rescued by a police launch about two hours later. He would be found clinging to a bell buoy off Governor’s Island. The papers the next morning would describe him as “incoherent.” I can believe it.
There was no one to question me at once. I was going to have to be locked up for a while. The police station was so busy that there wasn’t even an ordinary cell for me. I was given a chair in the corridor outside the cells. It was there that the rioters insulted me from behind bars, imagining that I would enjoy nothing so much as making love to them.
I was eventually taken to a padded cell in the basement. It was designed to hold a maniac until an ambulance could come for her or him. There wasn’t a toilet in there, because a maniac might try to bash his or her brains out on a toilet’s rim. There was no cot, no chair. I would have to sit or lie on the padded floor. Oddly enough, the only piece of furniture was a large bowling trophy, which somebody had stored in there. I got to know it well.
So there I was back in a quiet basement again.
And, as had happened to me when I was the President’s special advisor on youth affairs, I was forgotten again.
I was accidentally left there from noon until eight o’clock that night, without food or water, or a toilet or the slightest sound from the outside—on what was to have been my first full day of freedom. Thus began a test of my character that I failed.
I thought about Mary Kathleen and all she had been through. I still did not know that she was Mrs. Jack Graham, but she had told me something else very interesting about herself: After I left Harvard, after I stopped answering her letters or even thinking much about her anymore, she hitchhiked to Kentucky, where Kenneth Whistler was still working as a miner and an organizer. She arrived at sundown at the shack where he was living alone. The place was unlocked, having nothing inside worth stealing. Whistler was still at work. Mary Kathleen had brought food with her. When Whistler came home, there was smoke coming out of his chimney. There was a hot meal waiting for him inside.
That was how she got down into the coalfields. And that was how she happened, when Kenneth Whistler became violent late at night because of alcohol, to run out into the moonlit street of a shantytown and into the arms of a young mining engineer. He was, of course, Jack Graham.
And then I regaled myself with a story by my prison friend Dr. Robert Fender, which he had published under the name of “Kilgore Trout.” It was called “Asleep at the Switch.” It was about a huge reception center outside the Pearly Gates of heaven—filled with computers and staffed by people who had been certified public accountants or investment counselors or business managers back on Earth.
You could not get into heaven until you had submitted to a full review of how well you had handled the business opportunities God, through His angels, had offered to you on Earth.
All day long and in every cubicle you could hear the experts saying with utmost weariness to people who had

missed this opportunity and then that one: “And there you were, asleep at the switch again.”
How much time had I spent in solitary by then? I will make a guess: five minutes.
“Asleep at the Switch” was quite a sacrilegious story. The hero was the ghost of Albert Einstein. He himself was so little interested in wealth that he scarcely heard what his auditor had to say to him. It was some sort of balderdash about how he could have become a billionaire, if only he had gotten a second mortgage on his house in Bern, Switzerland, in Nineteen-hundred and Five, and invested the money in known uranium deposits before telling the world that E=Mc2.
“But there you were—asleep at the switch again,” said the auditor.
“Yes,” said Einstein politely, “it does seem rather typical.”
“So you see,” said the auditor, “life really was quite fair. You did have a remarkable number of opportunities, whether you took them or not.”
“Yes, I see that now,” said Einstein.
“Would you mind saying that in so many words?” said the auditor. “Saying what?” said Einstein.
“That life was fair.”
“Life was fair,” said Einstein.
“If you don’t really mean it,” said the auditor, “I have many more examples to show you. For instance, just forgetting atomic energy: If you had simply taken the money you put into a savings bank when you were at the Institute for Advanced Studies at Princeton, and you had put it, starting in Nineteen-hundred and Fifty, say, into IBM and Polaroid and Xerox—even though you had only five more years to live—” The auditor raised his eyes suggestively, inviting Einstein to show how smart he could be.
“I would have been rich?” said Einstein.
“‘Comfortable,’ shall we say?” said the auditor smugly. “But there you were again—” And again his eyebrows went up.
“Asleep at the switch?” asked Einstein hopefully.
The auditor stood and extended his hand, which Einstein accepted unenthusiastically. “So you see, Doctor Einstein,” he said, “we can’t blame God for everything, now can we?” He handed Einstein his pass through the Pearly Gates. “Good to have you aboard,” he said.
So into heaven Einstein went, carrying his beloved fiddle. He thought no more about the audit. He was a veteran of countless border crossings by then. There had always been senseless questions to answer, empty promises to make, meaningless documents to sign.
But once inside heaven Einstein encountered ghost after ghost who was sick about what his or her audit had shown. One husband and wife team, which had committed suicide after losing everything in a chicken farm in New Hampshire, had been told that they had been living the whole time over the largest deposit of nickel in the world.
A fourteen-year-old Harlem child who had been killed in a gang fight was told about a two-carat diamond ring that lay for weeks at the bottom of a catch basin he passed every day. It was flawless and had not been reported as stolen. If he had sold it for only a tenth of its value, four hundred dollars, say, according to his auditor, and speculated in commodities futures, especially in cocoa at that time, he could have moved his mother and sisters and himself into a Park Avenue condominium and sent himself to Andover and then to Harvard after that.
There was Harvard again.
All the auditing stories that Einstein heard were told by Americans. He had chosen to settle in the American part of heaven. Understandably, he had mixed feelings about Europeans, since he was a Jew. But it wasn’t only Americans who were being audited. Pakistanis and pygmies from the Philippines and even communists had to go through the very same thing.
It was in character for Einstein to be offended first by the mathematics of the system the auditors wanted everybody to be so grateful for. He calculated that if every person on Earth took full advantage of every opportunity, became a millionaire and then a billionaire and so on, the paper wealth on that one little planet would exceed the worth of all the minerals in the universe in a matter of three months or so. Also: There would be nobody left to do any useful work.
So he sent God a note. It assumed that God had no idea what sorts of rubbish His auditors were talking. It accused the auditors rather than God of cruelly deceiving new arrivals about the opportunities they had had on Earth. He

tried to guess the auditors’ motives. He wondered if they might not be sadists.
The story ended abruptly. Einstein did not get to see God. But God sent out an archangel who was boiling mad. He told Einstein that if he continued to destroy ghosts’ respect for the audits, he was going to take Einstein’s fiddle away from him for all eternity. So Einstein never discussed the audits with anybody ever again. His fiddle meant more to him than anything.
The story was certainly a slam at God, suggesting that He was capable of using a cheap subterfuge like the audits to get out of being blamed for how hard economic life was down here.
I made my mind a blank.
But then it started singing about Sally in the garden again.
Mary Kathleen O’Looney, exercising her cosmic powers as Mrs. Jack Graham, had meanwhile telephoned Arpad Leen, the top man at RAMJAC. She ordered him to find out what the police had done with me, and to send the toughest lawyer in New York City to rescue me, no matter what the cost.
He was to make me a RAMJAC vice-president after that. While she was at it, she said, she had a list of other good people who were to be rounded up and also made vice-presidents. These were the people I had told her about, of course—the strangers who had been so nice to me.
She also ordered him to tell Doris Kramm, the old secretary at The American Harp Company, that she didn’t have to retire, no matter how old she was.
Yes, and there in my padded cell I told myself a joke I had read in The Harvard Lampoon when a freshman. It had amazed me back then because it seemed so dirty. When I became the President’s special advisor on youth affairs, and had to read college humor again, I discovered that the joke was still being published many times a year— unchanged. This was it:
SHE: How dare you kiss me like that?
HE: I was just trying to find out who ate all the macaroons.
So I had a good laugh about that there in solitary. But then I began to crack. I could not stop saying to myself, “Macaroons, macaroons, macaroons ...”
Things got much worse after that. I sobbed. I bounced myself off the walls. I took a crap in a corner. I dropped the bowling trophy on the top of the crap.
I screamed a poem I had learned in grammar school:
Don’t care if I do die,
Do die, do die!
Like to make the juice fly, Juice fly, juice fly!
I may even have masturbated. Why not? We old folks have much richer sex lives than most young people imagine.
I eventually collapsed.
At seven o’clock that night the toughest attorney in New York entered the police station upstairs. He had traced me that far. He was a famous man, known to be extremely ferocious and humorless in prosecuting or defending almost anyone. The police were thunderstruck when such a dreaded celebrity appeared. He demanded to know what had become of me.
Nobody knew. There was no record anywhere of my having been released or transferred elsewhere. My lawyer knew I hadn’t gone home, because he had already asked after me there. Mary Kathleen had told Arpad Leen and Leen had told the lawyer that I lived at the Arapahoe.
They could not even find out what I had been arrested for.
So all the cells were checked. I wasn’t in any of them, of course. The people who had brought me in and the man who had locked me up had all gone off-duty. None of them could be reached at home.
But then the detective who was trying to placate my lawyer remembered the cell downstairs and decided to have a look inside it, just in case.
When the key turned in the lock, I was lying on my stomach like a dog in a kennel, facing the door. My stocking feet extended in the direction of the bowling trophy and the crap. I had removed my shoes for some reason.
When the detective opened the door, he was appalled to see me, realizing how long I must have been in there. The

City of New York had accidentally committed a very serious crime against me.
“Mr. Starbuck—?” he asked anxiously.
I said nothing. I did sit up. I no longer cared where I was or what might happen next. I was like a hooked fish that had done all the fighting it could. Whatever was on the other end of the line was welcome to reel me in.
When the detective said, “Your lawyer is here,” I did not protest even inwardly that nobody knew I was in jail, that I had no lawyer, no friends, no anything. So be it: My lawyer was there.
Now the lawyer showed himself. It would not have surprised me if he had been a unicorn. He was, in fact, almost that fantastic—a man who, when only twenty-six years old, had been chief counsel of the Senate Permanent Investigating Committee, whose chairman was Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the most spectacular hunter of disloyal Americans since World War Two.
He was in his late forties now—but still unsmiling and nervously shrewd. During the McCarthy Era, which came after Leland Clewes and I had made such fools of ourselves, I had hated and feared this man. He was on my side now.
“Mr. Starbuck,” he said, “I am here to represent you, if you want me to. I have been retained on your behalf by The RAMJAC Corporation. Roy M. Cohn is my name.”
What a miracle-worker he was!
I was out of the police station and into a waiting limousine before you could say, “Habeas corpus!”
Cohn, having delivered me to the limousine, did not himself get in. He wished me well without shaking my hand, and was gone. He never touched me, never gave any indication that he knew that I, too, had played a very public part in American history in olden times.
So there I was in a limousine again. Why not? Anything was possible in a dream. Hadn’t Roy M. Cohn just gotten me out of jail, and hadn’t I left my shoes behind? So why shouldn’t the dream go on—and have Leland Clewes and Israel Edel, the night clerk at the Arapahoe, already sitting in the back of the limousine, with a space between them for me? This it did.
They nodded to me uneasily. They, too, felt that life wasn’t making good sense just now.
What was going on, of course, was that the limousine was cruising around Manhattan like a schoolbus, picking up people Mary Kathleen O’Looney had told Arpad Leen to hire as RAMJAC vice-presidents. This was Leen’s personal limousine. It was what I have since learned is called a “stretch” limousine. The American Harp Company could have used the backseat for a showroom.
Clewes and Edel and the next person we were going to pick up had all been telephoned personally by Leen—after some of his assistants had found out more about who they were and where they were. Leland Clewes had been found in the phonebook. Edel had been found behind the desk at the Arapahoe. One of the assistants had gone to the Coffee Shop of the Royalton to ask for the name of a person who worked there and had a French-fried hand.
Other calls had gone to Georgia—one to the RAMJAC regional office, asking if they had a chauffeur named Cleveland Lawes working for them, and another to the Federal Minimum Security Adult Correctional Facility at Finletter Air Force Base, asking if they had a guard named Clyde Carter and a prisoner named Dr. Robert Fender there.
Clewes asked me if I understood what was going on.
“No,” I said. “This is just the dream of a jailbird. It’s not supposed to make sense.” Clewes asked me what had happened to my shoes.
“I left them in the padded cell,” I said.
“You were in a padded cell?” he said.
“It’s very nice,” I said. “You can’t possibly hurt yourself.”
A man in the front seat next to the chauffeur now turned his face to us. I knew him, too. He had been one of the lawyers who had escorted Virgil Greathouse into prison on the morning before. He was Arpad Leen’s lawyer, too. He was worried about my having lost my shoes. He said we would go back to the police station and get them.
“Not on your life!” I said. “They’ve found out by now that I threw the bowling trophy down in the shit, and they’ll just arrest me again.”
Edel and Clewes now drew away from me some. “This has to be a dream,” said Clewes.

“Be my guest,” I said. “The more the merrier.”
“Gentlemen, gentlemen—” said the lawyer genially. “Please, you mustn’t worry so. You are about to be offered the opportunity of your lives.”
“When the hell did she see me?” said Edel. “What was the wonderful thing she saw me do?”
“We may never know,” said the lawyer. “She seldom explains herself, and she’s a mistress of disguise. She could be anybody.”
“Maybe she was that big black pimp that came in after you last night,” Edel said to me. “I was nice to him. He was eight feet tall.”
“I missed him,” I said.
“You’re lucky,” said Edel.
“You two know each other?” said Clewes.
“Since childhood!” I said. I was going to blow this dream wide open by absolutely refusing to take it seriously. I was damn well going to get back to my bed at the Arapahoe or my cot in prison. I didn’t care which.
Maybe I could even wake up in the bedroom of my little brick bungalow in Chevy Chase, Maryland, and my wife would still be alive.
“I can promise you she wasn’t the tall pimp,” said the lawyer. “That much we can be sure of: Whatever she looks like, she is not tall.”
“Who isn’t tall?” I said.
“Mrs. Jack Graham,” said the lawyer.
“Sorry I asked,” I said.
“You must have done her some sort of favor, too,” the lawyer said to me, “or done something she saw and admired.”
“It’s my Boy Scout training,” I said.
So we came to a stop in front of a rundown apartment building on the Upper West Side. Out came Frank Ubriaco, the owner of the Coffee Shop. He was dressed for the dream in a pale-blue velvet suit and green-and-white cowboy boots with high, high heels. His French-fried hand was elegantly sheathed in a white kid glove. Clewes pulled down a jumpseat for him.
I said hello to him.
“Who are you?” he said.
“You served me breakfast this morning,” I said.
“I served everybody breakfast this morning,” he said.
“You know him, too?” said Clewes.
“This is my town,” I said. I addressed the lawyer, more convinced than ever that this was a dream, and I told him, “All right—let’s pick up my mother next.”
He echoed me uncertainly. “Your mother?”
“Sure. Why not? Everybody else is here,” I said.
He wanted to be cooperative. “Mr. Leen didn’t say anything specific about your not bringing anybody else along. You’d like to bring your mother?”
“Very much,” I said.
“Where is she?” he said.
“In a cemetery in Cleveland,” I said, “but that shouldn’t slow you down.”
He thereafter avoided direct conversations with me.
When we got underway again, Ubriaco asked those of us in the backseat who we were.
Clewes and Edel introduced themselves. I declined to do so.
“They’re all people who caught the eye of Mrs. Graham, just as you did,” said the lawyer.
“You guys know her?” Ubriaco asked Clewes and Edel and me.
We all shrugged.
“Jesus Christ,” said Ubriaco. “This better be a pretty good job you got to offer. I like what I do.”

“You’ll see,” said the lawyer.
“I broke a date for you monkeys,” said Ubriaco.
“Yes—and Mr. Leen broke a date for you,” said the lawyer. “His daughter is having her debut at the Waldorf tonight, and he won’t be there. He’ll be talking to you gentlemen instead.”
“Fucking crazy,” said Ubriaco. Nobody else had anything to say. As we crossed Central Park to the East Side, Ubriaco spoke again. “Fucking debut,” he said.
Clewes said to me, “You’re the only one who knows everybody else here. You’re in the middle of this thing somehow.”
“Why wouldn’t I be?” I said. “It’s my dream.”
And we were delivered without further conversation to the penthouse dwelling of Arpad Leen. We were told by the lawyer to leave our shoes in the foyer. It was the custom of the house. I, of course, was already in my stocking feet.
Ubriaco asked if Leen was a Japanese, since the Japanese commonly took off their shoes indoors.
The lawyer assured him that Leen was a Caucasian, but that he had grown up in Fiji, where his parents ran a general store. As I would find out later, Leen’s father was a Hungarian Jew, and his mother was a Greek Cypriot. His parents met when they were working on a Swedish cruise ship in the late twenties. They jumped ship in Fiji, and started the store.
Leen himself looked like an idealized Plains Indian to me. He could have been a movie star. And he came out into the foyer in a striped silk dressing gown and black socks and garters. He still hoped to make it to his daughter’s debut.
Before he introduced himself to us, he had to tell the lawyer an incredible piece of news. “You know what the son of a bitch is in prison for?” he said. “Treason! And we’re supposed to get him out and give him a job. Treason! How do you get somebody out of jail who’s committed treason? How do we give him even a lousy job without every patriot in the country raising hell?”
The lawyer didn’t know.
“Well,” said Leen, “what the hell. Get me Roy Cohn again. I wish I were back in Nashville.”
This last remark alluded to Leen’s having been the leading publisher of country music in Nashville, Tennessee, before his little empire was swallowed up by RAMJAC. His old company, in fact, was the nucleus of the Down Home Records Division of RAMJAC.
Now he looked us over and he shook his head in wonderment. We were a freakish crew. “Gentlemen,” he said, “you have all been noticed by Mrs. Jack Graham. She didn’t tell me where or when. She said you were honest and kind.”
“Not me,” said Ubriaco.
“You’re free to question her judgment, if you want,” said Leen. “I’m not. I have to offer you good jobs. I don’t mind doing that, though, and I’ll tell you why: She never told me to do anything that didn’t turn out to be in the best interests of the company. I used to say that I never wanted to work for anybody, but working for Mrs. Jack Graham has been the greatest privilege of my life.” He meant it.
He did not mind making us all vice-presidents. The company had seven hundred vice-presidents of this and that on the top level, the corporate level, alone. When you got out into the subsidiaries, of course, the whole business of presidents and vice-presidents started all over again.
“You know what she looks like?” Ubriaco wanted to know.
“I haven’t seen her recently,” said Leen. This was an urbane lie. He had never seen her, which was a matter of public record. He would confess to me later that he did not even know how he had come to Mrs. Graham’s attention. He thought she might have seen an article on him in the Diners Club magazine, which had featured him in their “Man on the Move” department.
In any event, he was abjectly loyal to her. He loved and feared his idea of Mrs. Graham the way Emil Larkin loved and feared his idea of Jesus Christ. He was luckier than Larkin in his worship, of course, since the invisible superior being over him called him up and wrote him letters and told him what to do.
He actually said one time, “Working for Mrs. Graham has been a religious experience for me. I was adrift, no matter how much money I was making. My life had no purpose until I became president of RAMJAC and placed myself at her beck and call.”

All happiness is religious, I have to think sometimes.
Leen said he would talk to us one by one in his library. “Mrs. Graham didn’t tell me about your backgrounds, what your special interests might be—so you’re just going to have to tell me about yourselves.” He said for Ubriaco to come into the library first, and asked the rest of us to wait in the living room. “Is there anything my butler can bring you to drink?” he said.
Clewes didn’t want anything. Edel asked for a beer. I, still hoping to blow the dream wide open, ordered a pousse- café, a rainbow-colored drink that I had never seen, but which I had studied while earning my Doctor of Mixology degree. A heavy liqueur was put into the bottom of the glass, then a lighter one of a different color was carefully spooned in on top of that, and then a lighter one still on top of that, and on and on, with each bright layer undisturbed by the one above or below.
Leen was impressed with my order. He repeated it, to make sure he had heard it right.
“If it’s not too much trouble,” I said. It was no more trouble, surely, than building a full-rigged ship model in a bottle, say.
“No problem!” said Leen. This, I would learn, was a favorite expression of his. He told the butler to give me a pousse-café without further ado.
He and Ubriaco went into the library, and the rest of us entered the living room, which had a swimming pool. I had never seen a living room with a swimming pool before. I had heard of such a thing, of course, but hearing of and actually seeing that much water in a living room are two very different things.
I knelt by the pool and swirled my hand in the water, curious about the temperature, which was soupy. When I withdrew my hand and considered its wetness, I had to admit to myself that the wet was undreamlike. My hand was really wet and would remain so for some time, unless I did something about it.
All this was really going on. As I stood, the butler arrived with my pousse-café.
Outrageous behavior was not the answer. I was going to have to start paying attention again. “Thank you,” I said
to the butler.
“You’re welcome, sir,” he replied.
Clewes and Edel were seated at one end of a couch about half a block long. I joined them, wanting their appreciation for how sedate I had become.
They were continuing to speculate as to when Mrs. Graham might have caught them behaving so virtuously.
Clewes mourned that he had not had many opportunities to be virtuous, selling advertising matchbooks and calendars from door to door. “About the best I can do is let a building custodian tell me his war stories,” he said. He remembered a custodian in the Flatiron Building who claimed to have been the first American to cross the bridge over the Rhine at Remagen, Germany, during World War Two. The capture of this bridge had been an immense event, allowing the Allied Armies to pour at high speed disguised as a man, though. “I sometimes think that the custodian could have been Mrs. Jack Graham, though.
Israel Edel supposed that Mrs. Graham could be disguised as a man, though. “I sometimes think that about half our customers at the Arapahoe are transvestites,” he said.
The possibility of Mrs. Graham’s being a transvestite would be brought up again soon, and most startlingly, by Arpad Leen.
Meanwhile, though, Clewes got back on the subject of World War Two. He got personal about it. He said that he and I, when we were wartime bureaucrats, had only imagined that we had something to do with defeats and victories. “The war was won by fighters, Walter. All the rest was dreams.”
It was his opinion that all the memoirs written about that war by civilians were swindles, pretenses that the war had been won by talkers and writers and socialites, when it could only have been won by fighters.
A telephone rang in the foyer. The butler came in to say that the call was for Clewes, who could take it on the telephone on the coffee table in front of us. The telephone was black-and-white plastic and shaped like Snoopy, the famous dog in the comic strip called “Peanuts.” Peanuts was owned by what was about to become my division of RAMJAC. To converse on that telephone, as I would soon discover, you had to put your mouth over the dog’s stomach and stick his nose in your ear. Why not?
It was Clewes’s wife Sarah, my old girl friend, calling from their apartment. She had just come home from a private nursing case, had found his note, which said where he was and what he was doing there and how he could be reached by telephone.

He told her that I was there, too, and she could not believe it. She asked to talk to me. So Clewes handed me the plastic dog.
“Hi,” I said.
“This is crazy,” she said. “What are you doing there?”
“Drinking a pousse-café by the swimming pool,” I said.
“I can’t imagine you drinking a pousse-café,” she said.
“Well, I am,” I said.
She asked how Clewes and I had met. I told her. “Such a small world, Walter,” she said, and so on. She asked me if Clewes had told me that I had done them a big favor when I testified against him.
“I would have to say that that opinion is moot,” I told her.
“Is what?” she said.
“Moot,” I said. It was a word she had somehow never heard before. I explained it to her.
“I’m so dumb,” she said. “There’s so much I don’t know, Walter.” She sounded just like the same old Sarah on the telephone. It could have been Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-five again, which made what she said next especially poignant: “Oh, my God, Walter! We’re both over sixty years old! How is that possible?”
“You’d be surprised, Sarah,” I said.
She asked me to come home with Clewes for supper, and I said I would if I could, that I didn’t know what was going to happen next. I asked her where she lived.
It turned out that she and Clewes lived in the basement of the same building where her grandmother used to live —in Tudor City. She asked me if I remembered her grandmother’s apartment, all the old servants and furniture jammed into only four rooms.
I said I did, and we laughed.
I did not tell her that my son also lived somewhere in Tudor City. I would find out later that there was nothing vague about his proximity to her, with his musical wife and his adopted children. Stankiewicz of The New York Times was in the same building, and notoriously so, because of the wildness of the children—and only three floors above Leland and Sarah Clewes.
She said that it was good that we could still laugh, despite all we had been through. “At least we still have our sense of humor,” she said. That was something Julie Nixon had said about her father after he got bounced out of the White House: “He still has his sense of humor.”
“Yes—at least that,” I agreed.
“Waiter,” she said, “what’s this fly doing in my soup?” “What?” I said.
“What’s this fly doing in my soup?” she persisted.
And then it came back to me: This was the opening line in a daisy chain of jokes we used to tell each other on the telephone. I closed my eyes. I gave the answering line, and the telephone became a time machine for me. It allowed me to escape from Nineteen-hundred and Seventy-seven and into the fourth dimension.
“I believe that’s the backstroke, madam,” I said.
“Waiter,” she said, “there’s also a needle in my soup.”
“I’m sorry, madam,” I said, “that’s a typographical error. That should have been a noodle.” “Why do you charge so much for cream?” she said.
“It’s because the cows hate to squat on those little bottles,” I said.
“I keep thinking it’s Tuesday,” she said.
“It is Tuesday,” I said.
“That’s what I keep thinking,” she said. “Tell me, do you serve flannelcakes?”
“Not on the menu today,” I said.
“Last night I dreamed I was eating flannelcakes,” she said.
“That must have been very nice,” I said.
“It was terrible,” she said. “When I woke up, the blanket was gone.”

She, too, had reason to escape into the fourth dimension. As I would find out later, her patient had died that night. Sarah had liked her a lot. The patient was only thirty-six, but she had a congenitally defective heart—huge and fatty and weak.
And imagine, if you will, the effect this conversation was having on Leland Clewes, who was sitting right next to me. My eyes were closed, as I say, and I was in such an ecstasy of timelessness and placelessness that I might as well have been having sexual intercourse with his wife before his eyes. He forgave me, of course. He forgives everybody for everything. But he still had to be impressed by how lazily in love Sarah and I could still be on the telephone.
What is more protean than adultery? Nothing in this world.
“I am thinking of going on a diet,” said Sarah.
“I know how you can lose twenty pounds of ugly fat right away,” I said.
“How?” she said.
“Have your head cut off,” I said.
Clewes could hear only my half of the conversation, of course, so he could only hear the premise or the snapper of a joke, but never both. Some of the lines were highly suggestive.
I asked Sarah, I remember, if she smoked after intercourse.
Clewes never heard her reply, which was this: “I don’t know. I never looked.” And then she went on: “What did you do before you were a waiter?”
“I used to clean birdshit out of cuckoo clocks,” I said.
“I have often wondered what the white stuff in birdshit was,” she said. “That’s birdshit, too,” I told her. “What kind of work do you do?”
“I work in the bloomer factory,” she said.
“Is it a good job in the bloomer factory?” I inquired archly.

21
OH,” SHE SAID. “I can’t complain. I pull down about ten thousand a year.” Sarah coughed, and that, too, was a cue, which I nearly missed.
“That’s quite a cough you have there,” I said in the nick of time.
“It won’t stop,” she said.
“Take two of these pills,” I said. “They’re just the thing.”
So she made swallowing sounds: “gluck, gluck, gluck.” And then she asked what was in the pills. “The most powerful laxative known to medical science,” I said.
“Laxative!” she said.
“Yes,” I said, “now you don’t dare cough.”
We did the joke, too, about a sick horse I supposedly had. I have never really owned a horse. The veterinarian gave me half a pound of purple powder that I was to give the horse, supposedly. The veterinarian told me to make a tube out of paper, and to put the powder inside the tube, and then to slip the tube into the horse’s mouth, and to blow it down its throat.
“How is the horse?” said Sarah.
“Oh, the horse is fine,” I said.
“You don’t look so good,” she said.
“No,” I said, “that is because the horse blew first.” “Can you still imitate your mother’s laugh?” she said.
This was not the premise of yet another joke. Sarah genuinely wanted to hear me imitate my mother’s laugh, something I used to do a lot for Sarah on the telephone. I had not tried the trick in years. I not only had to make my voice high: I also had to make it beautiful.
The thing was this: Mother never laughed out loud. She had been trained to stifle her laughter when a servant girl in Lithuania. The idea was that a master or guest, hearing a servant laughing somewhere in the house, might suspect that the servant was laughing about him.
So when my mother could not help laughing, she made tiny, pure sounds like a music box—or perhaps like bells far away. It was accidental that they were so beautiful.
So—forgetful of where I was, I now filled my lungs and tightened my throat, and to please my old girl friend, I reincarnated the laughing part of my mother.
It was at that point that Arpad Leen and Frank Ubriaco came back into the living room. They heard the end of my song.
I told Sarah that I had to hang up now, and I did hang up.
Arpad Leen stared at me hard. I had heard women speak of men’s undressing them mentally. Now I was finding out what that felt like. As things turned out, that was exactly what Leen was doing to me: imagining what I would look like with no clothes on.
He was beginning to suspect that I was Mrs. Jack Graham, checking up on him while disguised as a man.

22
I COULD NOT KNOW THAT, of course—that he thought I might be Mrs. Graham. So his subsequent courting of me was as inexplicable as anything that had happened to me all day.
I tried to believe that he was being so attentive in order to soften the bad news he had to give me by and by: that I was simply not RAMJAC material, and that his limousine was waiting down below to take me back, still jobless, to the Arapahoe. But the messages in his eyes were more passionate than that. He was ravenous for my approval of everything he did.
He told me, and not Leland Clewes or Israel Edel, that he had just made Frank Ubriaco a vice-president of the McDonald’s Hamburgers Division of RAMJAC.
I nodded that I thought that was nice.
The nod was not enough for Leen. “I think it’s a wonderful example of putting the right man in the right job,” he said. “Don’t you? That’s what RAMJAC is all about, don’t you think—putting good people where they can use their talents to the fullest?”
The question was for me and nobody else, so I finally said, “Yes.”
I had to go through the same thing after he had interviewed and hired Clewes and Edel. Clewes was made a vice- president of the Diamond Match Division, presumably because he had been selling advertising matchbooks for so long. Edel was made a vice-president of the Hilton Department of the Hospitality Associates, Ltd., Division, presumably because of his three weeks of experience as a night clerk at the Arapahoe.
It was then my turn to go into the library with him. “Last but not least,” he said coyly. After he closed the door on the rest of the house, his flirtatiousness became even more outrageous. “Come into my parlor,” he murmured, “said the spider to the fly.” He winked at me broadly.
I hated this. I wondered what had happened to the others in here.
There was a Mussolini-style desk with a swivel chair behind it. “Perhaps you should sit there,” he said. He made his eyebrows go up and down. “Doesn’t that look like your kind of chair? Eh? Eh? Your kind of chair?”
This could only be mockery, I thought, I responded to it humbly. I had had no self-respect for years and years. “Sir,” I said, “I don’t know what’s going on.”
“Ah,” he said, holding up a finger, “that does happen sometimes.”
“I don’t know how you found me, or even if I’m who you think I am,” I said.
“I haven’t told you yet who I think you are,” he said.
“Walter F. Starbuck,” I said bleakly.
“If you say so,” he said.
“Well,” I said, “whoever I am, I’m not much anymore. If you’re really offering jobs, all I want is a little one.”
“I’m under orders to make you a vice-president,” he said, “orders from a person I respect very much. I intend to obey.”
“I want to be a bartender,” I said.
“Ah!” he said. “And mix pousse-cafés!”
“I can, if I have to,” I said. “I have a Doctor of Mixology degree.”
“You also have a lovely high voice when you want to,” he said.
“I think I had better go home now,” I said. “I can walk. It isn’t far from here.” It was only about forty blocks. I had no shoes; but who needed shoes? I would get home somehow without them.
“When it’s time to go home,” he said, “you shall have my limousine.”
“It’s time to go home now,” I said. “I don’t care how I get there. It has been a very tiring day for me. I don’t feel

very clever. I just want to sleep. If you know anybody who needs a bartender, even part-time, I can be found at the Arapahoe.”
“What an actor you are!” he said.
I hung my head. I didn’t even want to look at him or at anybody anymore. “Not at all,” I said. “Never was.”
“I will tell you something strange,” he said.
“I won’t understand it,” I said.
“Everyone here tonight remembers having seen you, but they’ve never seen each other before,” he said. “How would you explain that?”
“I have no job,” I said. “I just got out of prison. I’ve been walking around town with nothing to do.”
“Such a complicated story,” he said. “You were in prison, you say?”
“It happens,” I said.
“I won’t ask what you were in prison for,” he said. What he meant, of course, was that I, and Mrs. Graham disguised as a man, did not have to go on telling taller and taller lies, unless it entertained me to do so.
“Watergate,” I said.
“Watergate!” he exclaimed. “I thought I knew the names of almost all the Watergate people.” As I would find out later, he not only knew their names: He knew many of them well enough to have bribed them with illegal campaign contributions, and to have chipped in for their defenses afterward. “Why is it that I have never heard the name Starbuck associated with Watergate before?”
“I don’t know,” I said, my head still down. “It was like being in a wonderful musical comedy where the critics mentioned everybody but me. If you can find an old program, I’ll show you my name.”
“The prison was in Georgia, I take it,” he said.
“Yes,” I said. I supposed that he knew that because Roy M. Cohn had looked up my record when he had to get me out of jail.
“That explains Georgia,” he said.
I couldn’t imagine why anybody would want Georgia explained.
“So that’s how you know Clyde Carter and Cleveland Lawes and Dr. Robert Fender,” he said.
“Yes,” I said. Now I started to be afraid. Why would this man, one of the most powerful corporate executives on the planet, bother to find out so much about a pathetic little jailbird like me? Was there a suspicion somewhere that I knew some spectacular secret that could still be revealed about Watergate? Might he be playing cat-and-mouse with me before having me killed some way?
“And Doris Kramm,” he said, “I’m sure you know her, too.”
I was so relieved not to know her! I was innocent after all! His whole case against me would collapse now. He had the wrong man, and I could prove it! I did not know Doris Kramm! “No, no, no,” I said. “I don’t know Doris Kramm.”
“The lady you asked me not to retire from The American Harp Company,” he said.
“I never asked you anything,” I said.
“A slip of the tongue,” he said.
And then horror grew in me as I realized that I really did know Doris Kramm. She was the old secretary who had been sobbing and cleaning out her desk at the harp showroom. I wasn’t about to tell him that I knew her, though.
But he knew I knew her, anyway! He knew everything! “You will be happy to learn that I telephoned her personally and assured her that she did not have to retire, after all. She can stay on as long as she likes. Isn’t that lovely?”
“No,” I said. It was as good an answer as any. But now I was remembering the harp showroom. I felt as though I had been there a thousand years ago, perhaps, in some other Ufe, before I was born. Mary Kathleen O’Looney had been there. Arpad Leen, in his omniscience, would surely mention her next.
And then the nightmare of the past hour suddenly revealed itself as having been logical all along. I knew something that Leen himself did not know, that probably nobody in the world but me knew. It was impossible, but it had to be true: Mary Kathleen O’Looney and Mrs. Jack Graham were the same.
It was then that Arpad Leen raised my hand to his lips and kissed it. “Forgive me for penetrating your disguise,

madam,” he said, “but I assume you made it so easy to penetrate on purpose. Your secret is safe with me. I am honored at last to meet you face to face.”
He kissed my hand again, the same hand Mary Kathleen’s dirty little claw had grasped that morning. “High time, madam,” he said. “We have worked together so well so long. High time.”
My revulsion at being kissed by a man was so fully automatic that I became a veritable Queen Victoria! My rage was imperial, although my language came straight from the playgrounds of my Cleveland adolescence. “What the hell do you think you’re doing?” I demanded to know. “I’m no God damn woman!” I said.
I have spoken of losing my self-respect over the years. Arpad Leen had now lost his in a matter of seconds, with this preposterous misapprehension of his.
He was speechless and white.
When he tried to recover, he did not recover much. He was beyond apologizing, too shattered to exhibit charm or cleverness of any kind. He could only grope for where the truth might lie.
“But you know her,” he said at last. There was resignation in his voice, for he was acknowledging what was becoming clear to me, too: that I was more powerful than he was, if I wanted to be.
I confirmed this for him. “I know her well,” I said. “She will do whatever I tell her, I’m sure.” This last was gratuitous. It was vengeful.
He was still a very sick man. I had come between his God and him. It was his turn to hang his head. “Well,” he said, and there was a long pause, “speak well of me, if you can.”
More than anything now, I wanted to rescue Mary Kathleen O’Looney from the ghastly life the dragons in her mind had forced her to lead. I knew where I could find her.
“I wonder if you could tell me,” I said to the broken Leen, “where I could find a pair of shoes to fit me at this time of night.”
His voice came to me as though from the place where I was going next, the great cavern under Grand Central Station. “No problem,” he said.

23
THE NEXT THING I knew, I all alone, having made certain that no one was following me, was descending the iron staircase into the cavern. Every few steps I called ahead, crooningly, comfortingly, “It’s Walter, Mary Kathleen. It’s Walter here.”
How was I shod? I was wearing black patent leather evening slippers with little bows at the insteps. They had been given to me by the ten-year-old son of Arpad Leen, little Dexter. They were just my size. Dexter had been required to buy them for dancing school. He did not need them anymore. He had delivered his first successful ultimatum to his parents: He had told them that he would commit suicide if they insisted that he keep on going to dancing school. He hated dancing school that much.
What a dear boy he was—in his pajamas and bathrobe after a swim in the living room. He was so sympathetic and concerned for me, for a little old man who had no shoes for his little feet. I might have been a kindly elf in a fairy tale, and he might have been a princeling, making a gift to the elf of a pair of magic dancing shoes.
What a beautiful boy he was. He had big brown eyes. His hair was a crown of black ringlets. I would have given a lot for a son like that. Then again, my own son, I imagine, would have given a lot for a father like Arpad Leen.
Fair is fair.
“It’s Walter, Mary Kathleen,” I called again. “It’s Walter here.” At the bottom of the steps, I came across the first clue that all might not be well. It was a shopping bag from Bloomingdale’s—lying on its side, vomiting rags and a doll’s head and a copy of Vogue, a RAMJAC publication.
I straightened it up and stuffed things back into its mouth, pretending that that was. all that needed to be done to put things right again. That is when I saw a spot of blood on the floor. That was something I couldn’t put back where it belonged. There were many more further on.
And I don’t mean to draw out the suspense here to no purpose, to give readers a frisson, to let them suppose that I would find Mary Kathleen with her hands cut off, waving her bloody stumps at me. She had in fact been sideswiped by a Checker cab on Vanderbilt Avenue, and had refused medical attention, saying that she was fine, just fine.
But she was far from fine.
There was a possible irony here, one I am, however, unable to confirm. There was a very good chance that Mary Kathleen had been creamed by one of her own taxicabs.
Her nose was broken, which was where the blood had come from. There were worse things wrong with her. I cannot name them. No inventory was ever taken of everything that was broken in Mary Kathleen.
She had hidden herself in a toilet stall. The drops of blood showed me where to look. There could be no doubt as to who was in there. Her basketball shoes were visible beneath the door.
At least there was not a corpse in there. When I crooned my name and my harmlessness again, she unlatched the door and pulled it open. She was not using the toilet, but simply sitting on it. She might as well have been Using it, her humiliation by life was now so complete. Her nosebleed had stopped, but it had left her with an Adolf Hitler mustache.
“Oh! You poor woman!” I cried.
She was unimpressed by her condition. “I guess that’s what I am,” she said. “That’s what my mother was.” Her mother, of course, had died of radium poisoning.
“What happened to you?” I said.
She told me about being hit by a taxi. She had just mailed a letter to Arpad Leen, confirming all the orders she had given to him on the telephone.
“I’ll get an ambulance,” I said.
“No, no,” she said. “Stay here, stay here.”

“But you need help!” I said.
“I’m past that,” she said.
“You don’t even know what’s wrong with you,” I said.
“I’m dying, Walter,” she said. “That’s enough to know.”
“Where there’s life there’s hope,” I said, and I prepared to run upstairs. “Don’t you dare leave me alone again!” she said.
“I’m going to save your life!” I said.
“You’ve got to hear what I have to say first!” she said. “I’ve been sitting here thinking, ‘My God—after all I’ve gone through, after all I’ve worked for, there isn’t going to be anybody to hear the last things I have to say.’ You get an ambulance, and there won’t be anybody who understands English on that thing.”
“Can I make you more comfortable?” I said.
“I am comfortable,” she said. There was something to that claim. Her layers and layers of clothing were keeping her warm. Her little head was supported in a corner of the stall and cushioned against the metal by a pillow of rags.
There was meanwhile an occasional grumbling in the living rock around us. Something else was dying upstairs, which was the railroad system of the United States. Half-broken locomotives were dragging completely broken passenger cars in and out of the station.
“I know your secret,” I said.
“Which one?” she said. “There are so many now.”
I expected it to be a moment of high drama when I told her that I knew she was the majority stockholder in RAMJAC. It was a fizzle, of course. She had told me that already, and I had failed to hear.
“Are you going deaf, Walter?” she said.
“I hear you all right, now,” I said.
“On top of everything else,” she said, “am I going to have to yell my last words?”
“No,” I said. “But I don’t want to listen to any more talk about last words. You’re so rich, Mary Kathleen! You can take over a whole hospital, if you want to—and make them make you well again!”
“I hate this life,” she said. “I’ve done everything I can to make it better for everybody, but there probably isn’t that much that anybody can do. I’ve had enough of trying. I want to go to sleep now.”
“But you don’t have to live this way!” I said. “That’s what I came here to tell you. I’ll protect you, Mary Kathleen. We’ll hire people we can trust absolutely. Howard Hughes hired Mormons—because they have such high moral standards. We’ll hire Mormons, too.”
“Oh Lord, Walter,” she said, “you think I haven’t tried Mormons?”
“You have?” I said.
“I was up to my ears in Mormons one time,” she said, and she told me as gruesome a tale as I ever expect to hear.
It happened when she was still living expensively, still trying to find ways to enjoy her great wealth at least a little bit. She was a freak that many people would have liked to photograph or capture or torment in some way—or kill. People would have liked to kill her for her hands or her money, but also for revenge. RAMJAC had stolen or ruined many other businesses and had even had a hand in the toppling of governments in countries that were small and weak.
So she dared not reveal her true identity to anyone but her faithful Mormons, and she had to keep moving all the time. And so it came to pass that she was staying on the top floor of a RAMJAC hotel in Managua, Nicaragua. There were twenty luxury suites on the floor, and she hired them all. The two stairways from the floor below were blocked with brutal masonry, like the archway in the lobby of the Arapahoe. The controls on the elevators were set so that only one could reach the top, and that one was manned by a Mormon.
Not even the manager of the hotel, supposedly, knew who she really was. But everyone in Managua, surely, must have suspected who she really was.
Be that as it may: She rashly resolved to go out into the city alone one day, to taste however briefly what she had not tasted for years—what it was like to be just another human being in the world. So out she went in a wig and dark glasses.
She befriended a middle-aged American woman whom she found weeping on a bench in a park. The woman was from St. Louis. Her husband was a brewmaster in the Anheuser-Busch Division of RAMJAC. They had come to

Nicaragua for a second honeymoon on the advice of a travel agent. The husband had died that morning of amoebic dysentery.
So Mary Kathleen took her back to the hotel and put her into one of the many unused suites she had, and told some of her Mormons to arrange to have the body and the widow flown to St. Louis on a RAMJAC plane.
When Mary Kathleen went to tell her about the arrangements, she found the woman strangled with a cord from the draperies. This was the really horrible part, though: Whoever had done it had obviously believed the woman was Mary Kathleen. Her hands were cut off. They were never found.
Mary Kathleen went to New York City soon after that. She began to watch shopping-bag ladies through field glasses from her suite in the Waldorf Towers. General of the Armies Douglas MacArthur lived on the floor above her, incidentally.
She never went out, never had visitors, never called anyone. No hotel people were allowed in. The Mormons brought the food from downstairs, and made the beds, and did all the cleaning. But one day she received a threatening note, anyway. It was in a pink, scented envelope atop her most intimate lingerie. It said that the author knew who she was and held her responsible for the overthrow of the legitimate government of Guatemala. He was going to blow up the hotel.
Mary Kathleen could take no more. She walked out on her Mormons, who were surely loyal, but unable to protect her. She began to protect herself with layers and layers of clothing she found in garbage cans.
“If your money made you so unhappy,” I said, “why didn’t you give it away?”
“I am!” she said. “After I die, you look in my left shoe, Walter. You will find my will in there. I leave The RAMJAC Corporation to its rightful owners, the American people.” She smiled. It was harrowing to see such cosmic happiness expressed by gums and a rotten tooth or two.
I thought she had died. She had not.
“Mary Kathleen—?” I said.
“I’m not dead yet,” she said.
“I really am going to get help now,” I said.
“If you do, I’ll die,” she said. “I can promise that now. I can die when I want to now. I can pick the time.” “Nobody can do that,” I said.
“Shopping-bag ladies can,” she said. “It’s our special dispensation. We can’t say when we will start dying. But once we do start, Walter, we can pick the exact time. Would you like me to die right now, at the count of ten?”
“Not now, not ever,” I said.
“Then stay here,” she said.
So I did. What else could I do?
“I want to thank you for hugging me,” she said. “Any time,” I said.
“Once a day is enough,” she said. “I’ve had my hug today.”
“You were the first woman I ever really made love to,” I said. “Do you remember that?”
“I remember the hugs,” she said. “I remember you said you loved me. No man had ever said that to me before. My mother used to say it to me a lot—before she died.”
I was starting to cry again.
“I know you never meant it,” she said.
“I did, I did,” I protested. “Oh, my God—I did.”
“It’s all right,” she said. “You couldn’t help it that you were born without a heart. At least you tried to believe what the people with hearts believed—so you were a good man just the same.”
She stopped breathing. She stopping blinking. She was dead.

EPILOGUE
THERE WAS MORE. There is always more.
It was nine o’clock in the evening of my first full day of freedom. I still had three hours to go. I went upstairs and
told a policeman that there was a dead shopping-bag lady in the basement.
His duties had made him cynical. He said to me, “So what else is new?”
So I stood by the body of my old friend in the basement until the ambulance attendants came, just as any other faithful animal would have done. It took a while, since it was known that she was dead. She was stiffening up when they got there. They commented on that. I had to ask them what they had just said, since they did not speak in English. It turned out that their first language was Urdu. They were both from Pakistan. Their English was primitive. If Mary Kathleen had died in their presence instead of mine, they would have said, I am sure, that she spoke gibberish at the end.
I inquired of them, in order to calm the sobs that were welling up inside me, to tell me a little about Urdu. They said it had a literature as great as any in the world, but that it had begun as a spare and ugly artificial language invented in the court of Genghis Khan. Its purpose in the beginning was military. It allowed his captains to give orders that were understood in every part of the Mongol Empire. Poets would later make it beautiful.
Live and learn.
I gave the police Mary Kathleen’s maiden name. I gave them my true name as well. I was not about to be cute with the police. Neither was I ready to have anyone learn yet that Mrs. Jack Graham was dead. The consequences of that announcement would surely be an avalanche of some kind.
I was the only person on the planet who could set it off. I was not ready to set it off yet. This was not cunning on my part, as some people have said. It was my natural awe of an avalanche.
I walked home, a harmless little elf in his magic dancing shoes, to the Hotel Arapahoe. Much straw had been spun into gold that day, and much gold had been spun into straw. And the spinning had just begun.
There was a new night clerk, naturally, since Israel Edel had been summoned to Arpad Leen’s. This new man had been sent over to fill in on short notice. His regular post was behind the desk at the Carlyle, also a RAMJAC hotel. He was exquisitely dressed and groomed. He was mortified, having to deal with whores and people fresh out of jails and lunatic asylums and so on.
He had to tell me that: that he really belonged to the Carlyle, and that he was only filling in. This was not the real him.
When I told him my name, he said that there was a package for me, and a message, too.
The police had returned my shoes and had picked up the clarinet parts from my bureau. The message was from Arpad Leen. It was a holograph, like Mary Kathleen’s will, which I had in the inner pocket of my suitcase—along with my Doctor of Mixology degree. The pockets of my raincoat were stuffed with other materials from Mary Kathleen’s shoes. They bulged like saddlebags.
Leen wrote that the letter was for my eyes only. He said that in the midst of the confusion at his penthouse he had never gotten around to offering a specific job to me. He suggested that I would be happy in his old division, which was Down Home Records. It now included The New York Times and Universal Pictures and Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey and Dell Publishing, among other things. There was also a catfood company, he said, which I needn’t worry about. It was about to be transferred to the General Foods Division. It had belonged to the Times.
“If this is not your cup of tea,” he wrote, “we’ll find something that is. I am absolutely thrilled to know that we will have an observer for Mrs. Graham among us. Please give her my warmest regards.”
There was a postscript. He said that he had taken the liberty of making an appointment for me at eleven the next morning with someone named Morty Sills. There was an address. I assumed that Sills was a RAMJAC personnel director or something. It turned out that he was a tailor.

Once again a multimillionaire was sending Walter F. Starbuck to his own tailor, to be made into a convincing counterfeit of a perfect gentleman.
•••
On the following morning I was still numbed by my dread of the avalanche. I was four thousand dollars richer and technically a thief. Mary Kathleen had had four one-thousand-dollar bills as insoles for her basketball shoes.
There was nothing in the papers about the death of Mary Kathleen. Why would there have been? Who cared? There was an obituary for the patient Sarah Clewes had lost—the woman with the bad heart. She left three children behind. Her husband had died in an automobile accident a month before, so the children were orphans now.
As I was being measured for a suit by Morty Sills, I found it unbearable to think of Mary Kathleen’s not being claimed by anyone. Clyde Carter was there, too, fresh off the plane from Atlanta. He, too, was getting a brand-new wardrobe, even before Arpad Leen had seen him.
He was scared.
I told him not to be.
So I went to the morgue after lunch, and I claimed her. It was easily done. Who else would want that tiny body? It had no relatives. I was its only friend.
I had one last look at it. It was nothing. There was nobody there anymore. “Nobody home.”
I found a mortician only one block away. I had him pick up the body and embalm it and put it into a serviceable casket. There was no funeral. I did not even accompany it to the grave, which was a crypt in a great concrete honeycomb in Morristown, New Jersey. The cemetery had advertised in the Times that morning. Each crypt had a tasteful little bronze door on which the tenant’s name was engraved.
Little did I dream that the man who did the engraving of the doors would be arrested for drunken driving about two years later, and would comment on what an unusual name the arresting officer had. He had come across it only once before—at his lugubrious place of work. The name of the officer, a Morris County deputy sheriff, actually, was Francis X. O’Looney.
O’Looney would become curious as to how the woman in the crypt was related to him.
O’Looney, using the sparse documents at the cemetery, would trace Mary Kathleen back to the morgue in New York City. There he would get a set of her fingerprints. On the outside chance that she had been arrested or had spent time in a mental institution, he would send the prints to the F.B.I.
Thus would RAMJAC be brought tumbling down.
•••
There was a bizarre sidelight to the case. O’Looney, before he finally found out who Mary Kathleen really was, fell in love with his dream of her when she was young. He had it all wrong, incidentally. He dreamed that she was tall and buxom and black-haired, whereas she had been short and scrawny and red-haired. He dreamed that she was an immigrant who had gone to work for an eccentric millionaire in a spooky mansion, and that she had been both attracted and repelled by this man, and that he had abused her to the point of death.
All this came out in divorce proceedings brought against O’Looney by his wife of thirty-two years. It was front- page stuff in the tabloids for a week or more. O’Looney was already famous by then. The papers called him “The man who blew the whistle on RAMJAC,” or variations on that theme. Now his wife was claiming that his affections had been alienated by a ghost. He wouldn’t sleep with her anymore. He stopped brushing his teeth. He was chronically late to work. He became a grandfather, and he didn’t care. He wouldn’t even look at the baby.
What was particularly sick about his behavior was that, even after he found out what Mary Kathleen had really been like, he stayed in love with the original dream.
“Nobody can ever take that away from me,” he said. “It’s the most precious thing I own.”
He has been relieved of his duties, I hear. His wife is suing him again—this time for her share in the small fortune he got for the movie rights to his dream. The film is to be shot in a spooky old mansion in Morristown. If you can believe the gossip columns, there is to be a talent search for an actress to play the Irish immigrant girl. Al Pacino has already agreed to play Sheriff O’Looney, and Kevin McCarthy to play the eccentric millionaire.
•••

So I dallied too long, and now I must go to prison again, they say. My high jinks with Mary Kathleen’s remains were not crimes in and of themselves, since corpses have no more rights than do orts from last night’s midnight snack. My actions were accessory, however, to the commission of a class E felony, which according to Section 190.30 of the Penal Law of New York State consists of unlawfully concealing a will.
I had entombed the will itself in a safe-deposit box of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, a division of RAMJAC.
I have tried to explain to my little dog that her master must go away for a while—because he violated Section 190.30. I have told her that laws are written to be obeyed. She understands nothing. She loves my voice. All news from me is good news. She wags her tail.
•••
I lived very high. I bought a duplex with a low-interest company loan. I cashed stock options for clothes and furniture. I became a fixture at the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Ballet, coming and going by limousine.
I gave intimate parties at my home for RAMJAC authors and recording artists and movie actors and circus performers—Isaac Bashevis Singer, Mick Jagger, Jane Fonda, Günther Gebel Williams, and the like. It was fun. After RAMJAC acquired the Marlborough Gallery and Associated American Artists, I had painters and sculptors to my parties, too.
How well did I do at RAMJAC? During my incumbency, my division, including subsidiaries under its control, both covert and overt, won eleven platinum records, forty-two gold records, twenty-two Oscars, eleven National Book Awards, two American League pennants, two National League pennants, two World Series, and fifty-three Grammies—and we never failed to show a return on capital of less than 23 percent. I even engaged in corporate in- fighting, preventing the transfer of the catfood company from my division to General Foods. It was exciting. I got really mad.
We just missed getting another Nobel prize in literature several times. But then we already had two: Saul Bellow and Mr. Singer.
I myself have made Who’s Who for the first time in my life. This is a slightly tarnished triumph, admittedly, since my own division controls Gulf & Western, which controls Who’s Who. I put it all in there, except for the prison term and the name of my son: where I was born, where I went to college, various jobs I’ve held, my wife’s maiden name.
•••
Did I invite my own son to my parties—to chat with so many heroes and heroines of his? No. Did he quit the Times when I became his superior there? No. Did he write or telephone greetings of any sort? No. Did I try to get in touch with him? Only once. I was in the basement apartment of Leland and Sarah Clewes. I had been drinking, something I don’t enjoy and rarely do. And I was physically so close to my son. His apartment was only thirty feet above my head.
It was Sarah who had made me telephone him.
So I dialed my son’s number. It was about eight o’clock at night. One of my little grandchildren answered, and I asked him his name.
“Juan,” he said.
“And your last name?” I said.
“Stankiewicz,” he said. In accordance with my wife’s will, incidentally, Juan and his brother, Geraldo, were receiving reparations from West Germany for the confiscation of my wife’s father’s bookstore in Vienna by the Nazis after the Anschluss, Germany’s annexation of Austria in Nineteen-hundred and Thirty-eight. My wife’s will was an old one, written when Walter was a little boy. The lawyer had advised her to leave the money to her grandchildren so as to avoid one generation of taxes. She was trying to be smart about money. I was out of work at the time.
“Is your daddy home?” I said.
“He’s at the movies,” he said.
I was so relieved. I did not leave my name. I said I would call back later.

•••
As for what Arpad Leen suspected about me: Like anyone else, he was free to suspect as much or as little as he pleased. There were no more fingerprinted messages from Mrs. Graham. The last one confirmed in writing that Clewes and I and Ubriaco and Edel and Lawes and Carter and Fender were to be made vice-presidents.
There was a deathly silence after that—but there had been deathly silences before. One lasted two years. Leen meanwhile operated under the mandate of a letter Mary Kathleen had sent him in Nineteen-hundred and Seventy- one, which said only this: “acquire, acquire, acquire.”
She had certainly picked the right man for the job. Arpad Leen was born to acquire and acquire and acquire.
What was the biggest lie I told him? That I saw Mrs. Graham once a week, and that she was happy and well and quite satisfied with the way things were going.
As I testified before a grand jury: He gave every evidence of believing me, no matter what I said about Mrs. Graham.
I was in an extraordinary position theologically with respect to that man. I knew the answers to so many of the ultimate questions he might want to ask about that life of his.
Why did he have to go on acquiring and acquiring and acquiring? Because his deity wanted to give the wealth of the United States to the people of the United States. Where was his deity? In Morristown, New Jersey. Was she pleased with how he was doing his job? She was neither pleased nor displeased, since she was as dead as a doornail. What should he do next? Find another deity to serve.
I was in an extraordinary position theologically with respect to his millions of employees, too, of course, since he was a deity to them, and supposedly knew exactly what he wanted and why.
•••
Well—it is all being sold off now by the federal government, which has hired twenty thousand new bureaucrats, half of them lawyers, to oversee the job. Many people assumed that RAMJAC owned everything in the country. It was something of an anticlimax, then, to discover that it owned only 19 percent of it—not even one-fifth. Still— RAMJAC was enormous when compared with other conglomerates. The second largest conglomerate in the Free World was only half its size. The next five after that, if combined, would have been only about two-thirds the size of RAMJAC.
There are plenty of dollars, it turns out, to buy all the goodies the federal government has to sell. The President of the United States himself was astonished by how many dollars had been scattered over the world through the years. It was as though he had told everybody on the planet, “Please rake your yard and send the leaves to me.”
There was a photograph on an inside page of the Daily News yesterday of a dock in Brooklyn. There was about an acre of bales that looked like cotton on the dock. These were actually bales of American currency from Saudi Arabia, cash on the barrelhead, so to speak, for the McDonald’s Hamburgers Division of RAMJAC.
The headline said this: “HOME AT LAST!”
Who is the lucky owner of all those bales? The people of the United States, according to the will of Mary Kathleen O’Looney.
•••
What, in my opinion, was wrong with Mary Kathleen’s scheme for a peaceful economic revolution? For one thing, the federal government was wholly unprepared to operate all the business of RAMJAC on behalf of the people. For another thing: Most of those businesses, rigged only to make profits, were as indifferent to the needs of the people as, say, thunderstorms. Mary Kathleen might as well have left one-fifth of the weather to the people. The businesses of RAMJAC, by their very nature, were as unaffected by the joys and tragedies of human beings as the rain that fell on the night that Madeiros and Sacco and Vanzetti died in an electric chair. It would have rained anyway.
The economy is a thoughtless weather system—and nothing more. Some joke on the people, to give them such a thing.
•••

There was a supper party given in my honor last week—a “going away party,” you might say. It celebrated the completion of my last full day at the office. The host and hostess were Leland Clewes and his lovely wife Sarah. They have not moved out of their basement apartment in Tudor City, nor has Sarah given up private nursing, although Leland is now pulling down about one hundred thousand dollars a year at RAMJAC. Much of their money goes to the Foster Parents Program, a scheme that allows them to support individual children in unfortunate circumstances in many parts of the world. They are supporting fifty children, I think they said. They have letters and photographs from several of them, which they passed around.
I am something of a hero to certain people, which is a novelty. I single-handedly extended the life of RAMJAC by two years and a little more. If I had not concealed the will of Mary Kathleen, those at the party would never have become vice-presidents of RAMJAC. I myself would have been thrown out on my ear—to become what I expect to be anyway, if I survive my new prison term, which is a shopping-bag man.
Am I broke again? Yes. My defense has been expensive. Also: My Watergate lawyers have caught up with me. I still owe them a lot for all they did for me.
Clyde Carter, my former guard in Georgia and now a vice-president of the Chrysler Air Temp Division of RAMJAC, was there with his lovely wife, Claudia. He did a side-splitting imitation of his cousin the President, saying, “I will never lie to you,” and promising to rebuild the South Bronx and so on.
Frank Ubriaco was there with his lovely new wife, Marilyn, who is only seventeen. Frank is fifty-three. They met at a discotheque. They seem very happy. She said that what attracted her to him at first was that he wore a white glove on only one hand. She had to find out why. He told her at first that the hand had been burned by a Chinese communist flame thrower during the Korean War, but later admitted that he had done it to himself with a Fry-o- lator. They have started a collection of tropical fish. They have a coffee table that contains tropical fish.
Frank invented a new sort of cash register for the McDonald’s Hamburgers Division. It was getting harder all the time to find employees who understood numbers well, so Frank took the numbers off the keys of the cash register and substituted pictures of hamburgers and milkshakes and French fries and Coca-Colas and so on. The person toting up a bill would simply punch the pictures of the various things a customer had ordered, and the cash register would add it up for him.
Frank got a big bonus for that.
My guess is that the Saudis will keep him on.
There was a telegram to me from Dr. Robert Fender, still in prison in Georgia. Mary Kathleen had wanted RAMJAC to make him a vice-president, too, but there was no way to get him out of prison. Treason was just too serious a crime. Clyde Carter had written to him that I was going back to prison myself, and that there was going to be a party for me, and that he should send a telegram.
This was all it said: “Ting-a-ling.”
That was from his science-fiction story about the judge from the planet Vicuna, of course, who had to find a new body to occupy, and who flew into my ear down there in Georgia, and found himself stuck to my feelings and destiny until I died.
According to the judge in the story, that was how they said both hello and good-bye on Vicuna: “Ting-a-ling.” “Ting-a-ling” was like the Hawaiian “aloha,” which also means both hello and good-bye.
“Hello and good-bye.” What else is there to say? Our language is much larger than it needs to be.
I asked Clyde if he knew what Fender was working on now.
“A science-fiction novel about economics,” said Clyde. “Did he say what pseudonym he’s going to use?” I said. “‘Kilgore Trout,’” said Clyde.
•••
My devoted secretary, Leora Borders, and her husband, Lance, were there. Lance was just getting over a radical mastectomy. He told me that one mastectomy in two hundred was performed on a man. Live and learn!
There were several other RAMJAC friends who should have been there, but dared not come. They feared that their reputations, and hence their futures as executives, might be tainted if it were known that they were friendly with me.
There were telegrams from other people I had had to my famous little parties—John Kenneth Galbraith and

Salvador Dali and Erica Jong and Liv Ullmann and the Flying Farfans and on and on.
Robert Redford’s telegram, I remember, said this: “Hang tough.”
The telegrams were something less than spontaneous. As Sarah Clewes would admit under questioning, she had been soliciting them all week long.
Arpad Leen sent a spoken message through Sarah, which was meant for my ears alone: “Good show.” That could be taken a million different ways.
He was no longer presiding over the dismemberment of RAMJAC, incidentally. He had been hired away by American Telephone and Telegraph Company, which had just been bought by a new company in Monaco named BIBEC. Nobody has been able to find out who or what BIBEC is, so far. Some people think it’s the Russians.
At least I will have some real friends outside of prison this time.
There was a bowl of yellow tulips on the table for a centerpiece. It was April again. It was raining outside. Nature sympathized.
•••
I was seated at the place of honor—to the right of my hostess, of Sarah Clewes, the nurse. Of the four women I ever loved, she was always the easiest one to talk to. That may be because I had never promised her anything, and so had never let her down. Oh, Lord—the things I used to promise my mother and my poor wife and poor Mary Kathleen!
Young Israel Edel and his not-so-lovely wife, Norma, were there. I say that she was not-so-lovely for the simple reason that she has always hated me. I don’t know why. I have never insulted her, and she is certainly as pleased as Punch with the upturn her husband’s career has taken. He would still be a night clerk, if it weren’t for me. The Edels are renovating a brownstone in Brooklyn Heights with all the money he makes. Still—every time she looks at me, I feel like something the cat dragged in. It is just one of those things. I think she may be slightly crazy. She miscarried twins about a year ago. That might have something to do with it. She may have some sort of chemical imbalance as a result of that. Who knows?
She wasn’t seated next to me anyway, thank God. Another black woman was. That was Eucharist Lawes, the lovely wife of Cleveland Lawes, the former RAMJAC chauffeur. He is a vice-president of the Transico Division now. That is really his wife’s name: Eucharist. It means happy gratitude, and I don’t know why more people don’t name their daughters that. Everybody calls her “Ukey.”
Ukey was homesick for the South. She said the people were friendlier and more relaxed and more natural down there. She was after Cleveland to retire in or near Atlanta, especially now that the Transico Division had been bought by Playgrounds International, which everybody knows is a front for the Mafia. It just can’t be proved.
My own division was being snapped up by I.G. Farben, a West German concern.
“It won’t be the same old RAMJAC,” I said to Ukey. “That’s for sure.”
There were presents—some silly, some not. Israel Edel gave me a rubber ice-cream cone with a squeaker in it—a plaything for my little dog, who is a female Lhasa apso, a golden dustmop without a handle. I could never have a dog when I was young, because Alexander Hamilton McCone hated dogs. So this is the only dog I have ever known at all well—and she sleeps with me. She snores. So did my wife.
I have never bred her, but now, according to the veterinarian, Dr. Howard Padwee, she is experiencing a false pregnancy and believes the rubber ice-cream cone to be a puppy. She hides it in closets. She carries it up and down the stairs of my duplex. She is even secreting milk for it. She is getting shots to make her stop doing that.
I observe how profoundly serious Nature has made her about a rubber ice-cream cone—brown rubber cone, pink rubber ice cream. I have to wonder what equally ridiculous commitments to bits of trash I myself have made. Not that it matters at all. We are here for no purpose, unless we can invent one. Of that I am sure. The human condition in an exploding universe would not have been altered one iota if, rather than live as I have, I had done nothing but carry a rubber ice-cream cone from closet to closet for sixty years.
Clyde Carter and Leland Clewes chipped in on a far more expensive present, which is a chess-playing computer. It is about the size of a cigar box, but most of the space is taken up by a compartment for the playing pieces. The computer itself is not much bigger than a package of cigarettes. It is called “Boris.” Boris has a long narrow little window in which he announces his moves. He can even joke about the moves I make. “Really?” he will say; or, “Have you played this game before?” or, “Is this a trap?” or, “Spot me a queen.”

Those are standard chess jokes. Alexander Hamilton McCone and I exchanged those same tired jokes endlessly when, for the sake of a Harvard education in my future, I agreed to be his chess-playing machine. If Boris had existed in those days, I probably would have gone to Western Reserve, and then become a tax. assessor or an office manager in a lumberyard, or an insurance salesman, or some such thing. Instead, I am the most disreputable Harvard graduate since Putzi Hänfstaengl, who was Hitler’s favorite pianist.
At least I gave ten thousand dollars to Harvard before the lawyers came and took away all my money again. •••
It was time for me now at the party to respond to all the toasts that had been offered to me. I stood. I had not had a drop of alcohol.
“I am a recidivist,” I said. I defined the word as describing a person who habitually relapsed into crime or antisocial behavior.
“A good word to know,” said Leland Clewes.
There was laughter all around.
“Our lovely hostess has promised two more surprises before the evening is over,” I said. These would turn out to be the trooping in of my son and his little human family from upstairs, and the playing of a phonograph recording of part of my testimony before Congressman Richard M. Nixon of California and others so long ago. It had to be played at seventy-eight revolutions per minute. Imagine that. “As though I hadn’t had surprises enough!” I said.
“Not enough nice ones, old man,” said Cleveland Lawes.
“Say it in Chinese,” I said. He had, of course, been a prisoner of war of the Chinese for a while.
Lawes said something that certainly sounded like Chinese.
“How do we know he wasn’t ordering sweet-and-sour pork?” said Sarah.
“You don’t,” said Lawes.
We had begun our feast with oysters, so I announced that oysters were not the aphrodisiacs many people imagined them to be.
There were boos, and then Sarah Clewes beat me to the punch line of that particular joke. “Walter ate twelve of them the other night,” she said, “and only four of them worked!”
She had lost another patient the day before.
There was more laughter all around.
And I was suddenly offended and depressed by how silly we were. The news, after all, could hardly have been worse. Foreigners and criminals and other endlessly greedy conglomerates were gobbling up RAMJAC. Mary Kathleen’s legacy to the people was being converted to mountains of rapidly deteriorating currency, which were being squandered in turn on a huge new bureaucracy and on legal fees and consultants’ fees, and on and on. What was left, it was said by the politicians, would help to pay the interest on the people’s national debt, and would buy them more of the highways and public buildings and advanced weaponry they so richly deserved.
Also: I was about to go to jail again.
So I elected to complain about our levity. “You know what is finally going to kill this planet?” I said.
“Cholesterol!” said Frank Ubriaco.
“A total lack of seriousness,” I said. “Nobody gives a damn anymore about what’s really going on, what’s going to happen next, or how we ever got into such a mess in the first place.”
Israel Edel, with his doctor’s degree in history, took this to be a suggestion that we become even sillier, if possible. So he began to make booping and beeping sounds. Others chimed in with their own beeps and boops. They were all imitating supposedly intelligent signals from outer space, which had been received by radio telescopes only the week before. They were the latest news sensation, and had in fact driven the RAMJAC story off the front pages. People were beeping and booping and laughing, not just at my party, but everywhere.
Nobody was prepared to guess what the signals meant. Scientists did say, though, that if the signals were coming from whence they appeared to come, they had to be a million years old or more. If Earth were to make a reply, it would be the start of a very slow conversation, indeed.
•••

So I gave up on saying anything serious. I told another joke, and I sat down.
The party ended, as I say, with the arrival of my son and daughter-in-law and their two children, and with the playing of a phonograph recording of the closing minutes of my testimony before a congressional committee in Nineteen-hundred and Forty-nine.
My daughter-in-law and my grandchildren found it natural and easy, seemingly, to accord me the honors due a grandfather who, when all was said and done, was a clean and dapper and kindly old man. The model for what the children found to love in me, I suppose, was Santa Claus.
My son was a shock. He was such a homely and unhealthy and unhappy-looking young man. He was short like me, and nearly as fat as his poor mother had become toward the end. I still had most of my hair, but he was bald. The baldness must have been inherited from the Jewish side of his family.
He was a chain-smoker of unfiltered cigarettes. He coughed a lot. His suit was riddled with cigarette holes. I glanced at him while the record was playing, and I saw that he was so nervous that he had three cigarettes all going at one time.
He had shaken my hand with the correct wretchedness of a German general surrendering at Stalingrad, say. I was still a monster to him. He had been cajoled into coming against his better judgment—by his wife and Sarah Clewes.
Too bad.
The record changed nothing. The children, kept up long after their bedtime, squirmed and dozed.
The record was meant to honor me, to let people who might not know about it hear for themselves what an idealistic young man I had been. The part in which I accidentally betrayed Leland Clewes as a former communist was on another record, I presume. It was not played.
Only my very last sentences were of much interest to me. I had forgotten them.
Congressman Nixon had asked me why, as the son of immigrants who had been treated so well by Americans, as a man who had been treated like a son and been sent to Harvard by an American capitalist, I had been so ungrateful to the American economic system.
The answer I gave him was not original. Nothing about me has ever been original. I repeated what my onetime hero, Kenneth Whistler, had said in reply to the same general sort of question long, long ago. Whistler had been a witness at a trial of strikers accused of violence. The judge had become curious about him, had asked him why such a well-educated man from such a good family would so immerse himself in the working class.
My stolen answer to Nixon was this: “Why? The Sermon on the Mount, sir.”
There was polite applause when the people at the party realized that the phonograph record had ended. Good-bye.

All persons, living and dead, are purely coincidental.
PROLOGUE
Ernest Hemingway in 1952 published in Life magazine a long short story called The Old Man and the Sea. It was about a Cuban fisherman who hadn’t caught anything for eighty-four days. The Cuban hooked an enormous marlin. He killed it and lashed it alongside his little boat. Before he could get it to shore, though, sharks bit off all the meat on the skeleton.
I was living in Barnstable Village on Cape Cod when the story appeared. I asked a neighboring commercial fisherman what he thought of it. He said the hero was an idiot. He should have hacked off the best chunks of meat and put them in the bottom of the boat, and left the rest of the carcass for the sharks.
It could be that the sharks Hemingway had in mind were critics who hadn’t much liked his first novel in ten years, Across the River and into the Trees, published two years earlier. As far as I know, he never said so. But the marlin could have been that novel.
And then I found myself in the winter of 1996 the creator of a novel which did not work, which had no point, which had never wanted to be written in the first place. Merde! I had spent nearly a decade on that ungrateful fish, if you will. It wasn’t even fit for shark chum.
I had recently turned seventy-three. My mother made it to fifty-two, my father to seventy-two. Hemingway almost made it to sixty-two. I had lived too long! What was I to do?
Answer: Fillet the fish. Throw the rest away.
This I did in the summer and autumn of 1996. Yesterday, November 11th of that year, I turned seventy-four. Seventy-four!
Johannes Brahms quit composing symphonies when he was fifty-five. Enough! My architect father was sick and tired of architecture when he was fifty-five. Enough! American male novelists have done their best work by then. Enough! Fifty-five is a long time ago for me now. Have pity!
My great big fish, which stunk so, was entitled Timequake. Let us think of it as Timequake One. And let us think of this one, a stew made from its best parts mixed with thoughts and experiences during the past seven months or so, as Timequake Two.
Hokay?
The premise of Timequake One was that a timequake, a sudden glitch in the space-time continuum, made everybody and everything do exactly what they’d done during a past decade, for good or ill, a second time. It was déjà vu that wouldn’t quit for ten long years. You couldn’t complain about life’s being nothing but old stuff, or ask if just you were going nuts or if everybody was going nuts.
There was absolutely nothing you could say during the rerun, if you hadn’t said it the first time through the decade. You couldn’t even save your own life or that of a loved one, if you had failed to do that the first time through.
I had the timequake zap everybody and everything in an instant from February 13th, 2001, back to February 17th,

1991. Then we all had to get back to 2001 the hard way, minute by minute, hour by hour, year by year, betting on the wrong horse again, marrying the wrong person again, getting the clap again. You name it!
Only when people got back to when the timequake hit did they stop being robots of their pasts. As the old science fiction writer Kilgore Trout said, “Only when free will kicked in again could they stop running obstacle courses of their own construction.”
Trout doesn’t really exist. He has been my alter ego in several of my other novels. But most of what I have chosen to preserve from Timequake One has to do with his adventures and opinions. I have salvaged a few of the thousands of stories he wrote between 1931, when he was fourteen, and 2001, when he died at the age of eighty-four. A hobo for much of his life, he died in luxury in the Ernest Hemingway Suite of the writers’ retreat Xanadu in the summer resort village of Point Zion, Rhode Island. That’s nice to know.
His very first story, he told me as he was dying, was set in Camelot, the court of King Arthur in Britain: Merlin the Court Magician casts a spell that allows him to equip the Knights of the Round Table with Thompson submachine guns and drums of .45-caliber dumdums.
Sir Galahad, the purest in heart and mind, familiarizes himself with this new virtue-compelling appliance. While doing so, he puts a slug through the Holy Grail and makes a Swiss cheese of Queen Guinevere.
Here is what Trout said when he realized that the ten year rerun was over, that he and everybody else were suddenly obligated to think of new stuff to do, to be creative again: “Oh, Lordy! I am much too old and experienced to start playing Russian roulette with free will again.”
Yes, and I myself was a character in Timequake One, making a cameo appearance at a clambake on the beach at the writers’ retreat Xanadu in the summer of 2001, six months after the end of the rerun, six months after free will kicked in again.
I was there with several fictitious persons from the book, including Kilgore Trout. I was privileged to hear the old, long-out-of-print science fiction writer describe for us, and then demonstrate, the special place of Earthlings in the cosmic scheme of things.
So now my last book is done, with the exception of this preface. Today is November 12th, 1996, about nine months, I would guess, from its publication date, from its emergence from the birth canal of a printing press. There is no rush. The gestation period for a baby Indian elephant is more than twice that long.
The gestation period for a baby opossum, friends and neighbors, is twelve days.
I have pretended in this book that I will still be alive for the clambake in 2001. In chapter 46, I imagine myself as still alive in 2010. Sometimes I say I’m in 1996, where I really am, and sometimes I say I am in the midst of a rerun following a timequake, without making clear distinctions between the two situations.
I must be nuts.

1
Call me Junior. My six grown kids do. Three are adopted nephews, three are my own. They call me Junior behind my back. They think I don’t know that.
I say in speeches that a plausible mission of artists is to make people appreciate being alive at least a little bit. I am then asked if I know of any artists who pulled that off. I reply, “The Beatles did.”
It appears to me that the most highly evolved Earthling creatures find being alive embarrassing or much worse. Never mind cases of extreme discomfort, such as idealists’ being crucified. Two important women in my life, my mother and my only sister, Alice, or Allie, in Heaven now, hated life and said so. Allie would cry out, “I give up! I give up!”
The funniest American of his time, Mark Twain, found life for himself and everybody else so stressful when he was in his seventies, like me, that he wrote as follows: “I have never wanted any released friend of mine restored to life since I reached manhood.” That is in an essay on the sudden death of his daughter Jean a few days earlier. Among those he wouldn’t have resurrected were Jean, and another daughter, Susy, and his beloved wife, and his best friend, Henry Rogers.
Twain didn’t live to see World War One, but still he felt that way.
Jesus said how awful life was, in the Sermon on the Mount: “Blessed are they that.mourn,” and “Blessed are the meek,” and “Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness.”
Henry David Thoreau said most famously, “The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation.”
So it is not one whit mysterious that we poison the water and air and topsoil, and construct ever more cunning doomsday devices, both industrial and military. Let us be perfectly frank for a change. For practically everybody, the end of the world can’t come soon enough.
My father, Kurt Senior, an Indianapolis architect who had cancer, and whose wife had committed suicide some fifteen years earlier, was arrested for running a red light in his hometown. It turned out that he hadn’t had a driver’s license for twenty years!
You know what he told the arresting officer? “So shoot me,” he said.
The African-American jazz pianist Fats Waller had a sentence he used to shout when his playing was absolutely brilliant and hilarious. This was it: “Somebody shoot me while I’m happy!”
That there are such devices as firearms, as easy to operate as cigarette lighters and as cheap as toasters, capable at anybody’s whim of killing Father or Fats or Abraham Lincoln or John Lennon or Martin Luther King, Jr., or a woman pushing a baby carriage, should be proof enough for anybody that, to quote the old science fiction writer Kilgore Trout, “being alive is a crock of shit.”

2
Imagine this: A great American university gives up football in the name of sanity. It turns its vacant stadium into a bomb factory. So much for sanity. Shades of Kilgore Trout.
I am speaking of my alma mater, the University of Chicago. In December of 1942, long before I got there, the first chain reaction of uranium on Earth was compelled by scientists underneath the stands of Stagg Field. Their intent was to demonstrate the feasibility of an atomic bomb. We were at war with Germany and Japan.
Fifty-three years later, on August 6th, 1995, there was a gathering in the chapel of my university to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the detonation of the first atomic bomb, over the city of Hiroshima, Japan. I was there.
One of the speakers was the physicist Leo Seren. He had participated in the successful experiment under the lifeless sports facility so long ago. Get this: He apologized for having done that!
Somebody should have told him that being a physicist, on a planet where the smartest animals hate being alive so much, means never having to say you’re sorry.
Now imagine this: A man creates a hydrogen bomb for a paranoid Soviet Union, makes sure it will work, and then wins a Nobel Peace Prize! This real-life character, worthy of a story by Kilgore Trout, was the late physicist Andrei Sakharov.
He won his Nobel in 1975 for demanding a halt to the testing of nuclear weapons. He, of course, had already tested his. His wife was a pediatrician! What sort of person could perfect a hydrogen bomb while married to a child- care specialist? What sort of physician would stay with a mate that cracked?
“Anything interesting happen at work today, Honey-bunch?”
“Yes. My bomb is going to work just great. And how are you doing with that kid with chicken pox?”
Andrei Sakharov was a sort of saint in 1975, a sort that is no longer celebrated, now that the Cold War is over. He was a dissident in the Soviet Union. He called for an end to the development and testing of nuclear weapons, and also for more freedoms for his people. He was kicked out of the USSR’s Academy of Sciences. He was exiled from Moscow to a whistlestop on the permafrost.
He was not allowed to go to Oslo to receive his Peace Prize. His pediatrician wife, Elena Bonner, accepted it for him there. But isn’t it time for us to ask now if she, or any pediatrician or healer, wasn’t more deserving of a Peace Prize than anyone who had a hand in creating an H-bomb for any kind of government anywhere?
Human rights? What could be more indifferent to the rights of any form of life than an H-bomb?
Sakharov was in June of 1987 awarded an honorary doctorate by Staten Island College in New York City. Once again his government wouldn’t let him accept in person. So I was asked to do that for him.
All I had to do was deliver a message he had sent. This was it: “Don’t give up on nuclear energy.” I spoke it like a

robot.
I was so polite! But this was one year after this crazy planet’s most deadly nuclear calamity so far, at Chernobyl, Ukraine. Children all over northern Europe will be sickened or worse for years to come by that release of radiation. Plenty of work for pediatricians!
More heartening to me than Sakharov’s cockamamie exhortation was the behavior of firemen in Schenectady, New York, after Chernobyl. I used to work in Schenectady. The firemen sent a letter to their brother firemen over there, congratulating them on their courage and selflessness while trying to save lives and property.
Hooray for firemen!
Scum of the Earth as some may be in their daily lives, they can all be saints in emergencies. Hooray for firemen.

3
In Timequake One, Kilgore Trout wrote a story about an atom bomb. Because of the timequake, he had to write it twice. The ten-year rerun following the timequake, remember, made him and me, and you, and everybody else, do everything we’d done from February 17th, 1991, to February 13th, 2001, a second time.
Trout didn’t mind writing it again. Rerun or not, he could tune out the crock of shit being alive was as long as he was scribbling, head down, with a ballpoint pen on a yellow legal pad.
He called the story “No Laughing Matter.” He threw it away before anybody else could see it, and then had to throw it away again during the rerun. At the clambake at the end of Timequake One, in the summer of the year 2001, after free will kicked in again, Trout said this about all the stories he had torn to pieces and flushed down toilets, or tossed into trash-strewn vacant lots, or whatever: “Easy come, easy go.”
“No Laughing Matter” got its title from what a judge in the story said during a top-secret court-martial of the crew of the American bomber Joy’s Pride, on the Pacific island of Banalulu, one month after the end of World War Two.
Joy’s Pride itself was perfectly OK, and in a hangar there on Banalulu. It was named in honor of the pilot’s mother, Joy Peterson, a nurse in obstetrics in a hospital in Corpus Christi, Texas. Pride had a double meaning. It meant self-respect. It meant a lion family, too.
Here’s the thing: After an atom bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, and then another one was dropped on Nagasaki, Joy’s Pride was ordered to drop yet another one on Yokohama, on a couple of million “little yellow bastards.” The little yellow bastards were called “little yellow bastards” back then. It was wartime. Trout described the third atom bomb like this: “A purple motherfucker as big as a boiler in the basement of a mid-size junior high school.”
It was too big to fit inside the bomb bay. It was slung underneath the plane’s belly, and cleared the runway by a foot when Joy’s Pride took off into the wild blue yonder.
As the plane neared its target, the pilot mused out loud on the intercom that his mother, the obstetrics nurse, would be a celebrity back home after they did what they were about to do. The bomber Enola Gay, and the woman in whose honor it was named, had become as famous as movie stars after it dropped its load on Hiroshima. Yokohama was twice as populous as Hiroshima and Nagasaki combined.
The more the pilot thought about it, though, the surer he was that his sweet widowed mother could never tell reporters she was happy that her son’s airplane had killed a world’s record number of civilians all at once.
Trout’s story reminds me of the time my late great-aunt Emma Vonnegut said she hated the Chinese. Her late son- in-law Kerfuit Stewart, who used to own Stewart’s Book Store in Louisville, Kentucky, admonished her that it was wicked to hate that many people all at once.
Whatever.
The crewmen aboard Joy’s Pride, at any rate, told the pilot on the intercom that they felt much as he did. They

were all alone up there in the sky. They didn’t need a fighter escort, since the Japanese didn’t have any airlanes left. The war was over, except for the paperwork, arguably the situation even before Enola Gay cremated Hiroshima.
To quote Kilgore Trout: “This wasn’t war anymore, and neither had been the obliteration of Nagasaki. This was ‘Thanks to the Yanks for a job well done!’ This was show biz now.”
Trout said in “No Laughing Matter” that the pilot and his bombardier had felt somewhat godlike on previous missions, when they had had nothing more than incendiaries and conventional high explosives to drop on people. “But that was godlike with a little g,” he wrote. “They identified themselves with minor deities who only avenged and destroyed. Up there in the sky all alone, with the purple motherfucker slung underneath their plane, they felt like the Boss God Himself, who had an option which hadn’t been theirs before, which was to be merciful.”
Trout himself had been in World War Two, but not as an airman and not in the Pacific. He had been a forward observer for the Army field artillery in Europe, a lieutenant with binoculars and a radio, up with the infantry or even ahead of it. He would tell batteries to the rear where their shrapnel or white phosphorus or whatever might help a lot.
He himself had certainly not been merciful, nor, by his own account, had he ever felt he should have been. I asked him at the clambake in 2001, at the writers’ retreat Xanadu, what he’d done during the war, which he called “civilization’s second unsuccessful attempt to commit suicide.”
He said without a scintilla of regret, “I made sandwiches of German soldiers between an erupting Earth and an exploding sky, and in a blizzard of razor blades.”
The pilot of Joy’s Pride made a U-turn way up in the sky. The purple motherfucker was still slung underneath. The pilot headed back for Banalulu. “He did it,” wrote Trout, “because that is what his mother would have wanted him to do.”
At the top-secret court-martial afterward, everybody was convulsed with laughter at one point in the proceedings. This caused the chief judge to bang his gavel and declare that what those on trial had done was “no laughing matter.” What people found so funny was the prosecutor’s description of what people did at the base when Joy’s Pride came in for a landing with the purple motherfucker only a foot above the tarmac. People jumped out of windows. They peed in their pants.
“There were all kinds of collisions between different kinds of vehicles,” wrote Kilgore Trout.
No sooner had the judge restored order, though, than a huge crack opened in the floor of the Pacific Ocean. It swallowed Banalulu, court-martial, Joy’s Pride, unused atom bomb and all.

4
When the excellent German novelist and graphic artist Günter Grass heard that I was born in 1922, he said to me, “There are no males in Europe your age for you to talk to.” He himself was a kid during Kilgore Trout’s and my war, as were Elie Wiesel and Jerzy Kosinski and Milos Forman, and on and on. I was lucky to be born over here instead of over there, and white and middle-class, and into a house full of books and pictures, and into a large extended family, which exists no more.
I heard the poet Robert Pinsky give a reading this summer, in which he apologized didactically for having had a much nicer life than normal. I should do that, too.
At least I seized the opportunity this past May to thank my birthplace, as a graduation speaker at Butler University. I said, “If I had it to do all over, I would choose to be born again in a hospital in Indianapolis. I would choose to spend my childhood again at 4365 North Illinois Street, about ten blocks from here, and to again be a product of that city’s public schools.
“I would again take courses in bacteriology and qualitative analysis in the summer school of Butler University.
“It was all here for me, just as it has all been for you, the best and the worst of Western Civilization, if you cared to pay attention: music, finance, government, architecture, law and sculpture and painting, history and medicine and athletics and every sort of science, and books, books, books, and teachers and role models.
“People so smart you can’t believe it, and people so dumb you can’t believe it. People so nice you can’t believe it, and people so mean you can’t believe it.”
I gave advice, too. I said, “My uncle Alex Vonnegut, a Harvard-educated life insurance salesman who lived at 5033 North Pennsylvania Street, taught me something very important. He said that when things were really going well we should be sure to notice it.
“He was talking about simple occasions, not great victories: maybe drinking lemonade on a hot afternoon in the shade, or smelling the aroma of a nearby bakery, or fishing and not caring if we catch anything or not, or hearing somebody all alone playing a piano really well in the house next door.
“Uncle Alex urged me to say this out loud during such epiphanies: ‘If this isn’t nice, what is?’ ”
Another way I was lucky: for the first thirty-three years of my life, telling short stories with ink on paper was a major American industry. Although I then had a wife and two children, it made good business sense for me to quit my job as a publicity man for General Electric, with health insurance and a retirement plan. I could make more money selling stories to The Saturday Evening Post and Collier’s, weekly magazines full of ads, which published five short stories and an installment of a cliff-hanging serial in every issue.
Those were just the top-paying buyers of what I could produce. There were so many other magazines hungry for fiction that the market for stories was like a pinball machine. When I mailed off a story to my agent, I could be pretty sure somebody would pay me something for it, even though it might be rejected again and again.
But not long after I moved my family from Schenectady, New York, to Cape Cod, television, a much better buy for advertisers than magazines, made playing short story pinball for a living obsolete.

I commuted from the Cape to Boston to work for an industrial advertising agency, and then became a dealer in Saab automobiles, and then taught high school English in a private school for seriously fucked-up rich kids.
My son the doctor Mark Vonnegut, who wrote a swell book about his going crazy in the 1960s, and then graduated from Harvard Medical School, had an exhibition of his watercolors in Milton, Massachusetts, this summer. A reporter asked him what it had been like to grow up with a famous father.
Mark replied, “When I was growing up, my father was a car salesman who couldn’t get a job teaching at Cape Cod Junior College.”
 
5
I still think up short stories from time to time, as though there were money in it. The habit dies hard. There used to be fleeting fame in it, too. Highly literate people once talked enthusiastically to one another about a story by Ray Bradbury or J. D. Salinger or John Cheever or John Collier or John O‘Hara or Shirley Jackson or Flannery O’Connor or whomever, which had appeared in a magazine in the past few days.
No more.
All I do with short story ideas now is rough them out, credit them to Kilgore Trout, and put them in a novel. Here’s the start of another one hacked from the carcass of Timequake One, and entitled “The Sisters B-36”: ”On the matriarchal planet Booboo in the Crab Nebula, there were three sisters whose last name was B-36. It could be only a coincidence that their family name was also that of an Earthling airplane designed to drop bombs on civilian populations with corrupt leaderships. Earth and Booboo were too far apart to ever communicate.”
Another coincidence: The written language of Booboo was like English on Earth, in that it consisted of idiosyncratic arrangements in horizontal lines of twenty-six phonetic symbols, ten numbers, and about eight punctuation marks.
All three of the sisters were beautiful, so went Trout’s tale, but only two of them were popular, one a picture painter and the other a short story writer. Nobody could stand the third one, who was a scientist. She was so boring! All she could talk about was thermodynamics. She was envious. Her secret ambition was to make her two artistic sisters feel, to use a favorite expression of Trout’s, “like something the cat drug in.”
Trout said Booboolings were among the most adaptable creatures in the local family of galaxies. This was thanks to their great big brains, which could be programmed to do or not do, and feel or not feel, just about anything. You name it!
The programming wasn’t done surgically or electrically, or by any other sort of neurological intrusiveness. It was done socially, with nothing but talk, talk, talk. Grownups would speak to little Booboolings favorably about presumably appropriate and desirable feelings and deeds. The brains of the youngsters would respond by growing circuits that made civilized pleasures and behavior automatic.
It seemed a good idea, for example, when nothing much was really going on, for Booboolings to be beneficially excited by minimal stimuli, such as idiosyncratic arrangements in horizontal lines of twenty-six phonetic symbols, ten numbers, and eight or so punctuation marks, or dabs of pigment on flat surfaces in frames.
When a little Boobooling was reading a book, a grownup might interrupt to say, depending on what was happening in the book, “Isn’t that sad? The little girl’s nice little dog has just been run over by a garbage truck. Doesn’t that make you want to cry?” Or the grownup might say, about a very different sort of story, “Isn’t that funny? When that conceited old rich man stepped on a nim-nim peel and fell into an open manhole, didn’t that make you practically pop a gut laughing?”
A nim-nim was a banana-like fruit on Booboo.

An immature Boobooling taken to an art gallery might be asked about a certain painting whether the woman in it was really smiling or not. Couldn’t she be sad about something, and still look that way? Is she married, do you think? Does she have a kid? Is she nice to it? Where do you think she’s going next? Does she want to go?
If there was a bowl of fruit in the painting, a grownup might ask, “Don’t those nim-nims look good enough to eat? Yummy yum yum!”
These examples of Boobooling pedagogy aren’t mine. They’re Kilgore Trout’s.
Thus were the brains of most, but not quite all, Booboolings made to grow circuits, microchips, if you like, which on Earth would be called imaginations. Yes, and it was precisely because a vast majority of Booboolings had imaginations that two of the B-36 sisters, the short story writer and the painter, were so beloved.
The bad sister had an imagination, all right, but not in the field of art appreciation. She wouldn’t read books or go to art galleries. She spent every spare minute when she was little in the garden of a lunatic asylum next door. The psychos in the garden were believed to be harmless, so her keeping them company was regarded as a laudably compassionate activity. But the nuts taught her thermodynamics and calculus and so on.
When the bad sister was a young woman, she and the nuts worked up designs for television cameras and transmitters and receivers. Then she got money from her very rich mom to manufacture and market these satanic devices, which made imaginations redundant. They were instantly popular because the shows were so attractive and no thinking was involved.
She made a lot of money, but what really pleased her was that her two sisters were starting to feel like something the cat drug in. Young Booboolings didn’t see any point in developing imaginations anymore, since all they had to do was turn on a switch and see all kinds of jazzy shit. They would look at a printed page or a painting and wonder how anybody could have gotten his or her rocks off looking at things that simple and dead.
The bad sister’s name was Nim-nim. When her parents named her that, they had no idea how unsweet she was going to be. And TV wasn’t the half of it! She was as unpopular as ever because she was as boring as ever, so she invented automobiles and computers and barbed wire and flamethrowers and land mines and machine guns and so on. That’s how pissed off she was.
New generations of Booboolings grew up without imaginations. Their appetites for diversions from boredom were perfectly satisfied by all the crap Nim-nim was selling them. Why not? What the heck.
Without imaginations, though, they couldn’t do what their ancestors had done, which was read interesting, heart- warming stories in the faces of one another. So, according to Kilgore Trout, “Booboolings became among the most merciless creatures in the local family of galaxies.”

6
Trout said at the clambake in 2001 that life was undeniably preposterous. “But our brains are big enough to let us adapt to the inevitable pratfalls and buffoonery,” he went on, “by means of manmade epiphanies like this one.” He meant the clambake on a beach under a starry sky. “If this isn’t nice, what is?” he said.
He declared the corn on the cob, steamed in seaweed with lobsters and clams, to be heavenly. He added, “And don’t all the ladies look like angels tonight!” He was feasting on corn on the cob and women as ideas. He couldn’t eat the corn because the upper plate of his false teeth was insecure. His long-term relationships with women had been disasters. In the only love story he ever attempted, “Kiss Me Again,” he had written, “There is no way a beautiful woman can live up to what she looks like for any appreciable length of time.”
The moral at the end of that story is this: “Men are jerks. Women are psychotic.”
Chief among manmade epiphanies for me have been stage plays. Trout called them “artificial timequakes.” He said, “Before Earthlings knew there were such things as timequakes in Nature, they invented them.” And it’s true. Actors know everything they are going to say and do, and how everything is going to come out in the end, for good or ill, when the curtain goes up on Act One, Scene One. Yet they have no choice but to behave as though the future were a mystery.
Yes, and when the timequake of 2001 zapped us back to 1991, it made ten years of our pasts ten years of our futures, so we could remember everything we had to say and do again when the time came.
Keep this in mind at the start of the next rerun after the next timequake: The show must go on!
The artificial timequake that has moved me most so far this year is an old one. It is Our Town, by the late Thornton Wilder. I had already watched it with undiminished satisfaction maybe five or six times. And then this spring my thirteen-year-old daughter, dear Lily, was cast as a talking dead person in the graveyard of Grover’s Corners in a school production of that innocent, sentimental masterpiece.
The play zapped Lily and her schoolmates from the evening of the performance back to May 7th, 1901! Timequake! They were robots of Thornton Wilder’s imaginary past until the curtain came down after the funeral of the heroine Emily in the very last scene. Only then could they live in 1996 again. Only then could they again decide for themselves what to say or do next. Only then could they exercise free will again.
I reflected sadly that night, with Lily pretending to be a dead grownup, that I would be seventy-eight when she graduated from high school, and eighty-two when she graduated from college, and so on. Talk about remembering the future!
What hit me really hard that night, though, was the character Emily’s farewell in the last scene, after the mourners have gone back down the hill to their village, having buried her. She says, “Good-by, good-by, world. Good-by, Grover’s Corners... Mama and Papa. Good-by to clocks ticking... and Mama’s sunflowers. And food and coffee. And new-ironed dresses and hot baths... and sleeping and waking up. Oh, earth, you’re too wonderful for anybody to realize you.
“Do any human beings ever realize life while they live it?—every, every minute?”
I myself become a sort of Emily every time I hear that speech. I haven’t died yet, but there is a place, as seemingly safe and simple, as learnable, as acceptable as Grover’s Corners at the turn of the century, with ticking clocks and Mama and Papa and hot baths and new-ironed clothes and all the rest of it, to which I’ve already said good-by,

good-by, one hell of a long time ago now.
Here’s what that was: the first seven years of my life, before the shit hit the fan, first the Great Depression and then World War Two.
They say the first thing to go when you’re old is your legs or your eyesight. It isn’t true. The first thing to go is parallel parking.
Now I find myself maundering about parts of plays hardly anybody knows or cares about anymore, such as the graveyard scene in Our Town, or the poker game in Tennessee Williams’s A Streetcar Named Desire, or what Willy Loman’s wife said after that tragically ordinary, clumsily gallant American committed suicide in Arthur Miller’s Death of a Salesman.
She said, “Attention must be paid.”
In A Streetcar Named Desire, Blanche DuBois said as she was taken away to a madhouse, after she was raped by her sister’s husband, “I have always depended on the kindness of strangers.”
Those speeches, those situations, those people, became emotional and ethical landmarks for me in my early manhood, and remain such in the summer of 1996. That is because I was immobilized in a congregation of rapt fellow human beings in a theater when I first saw and heard them.
They would have made no more impression on me than Monday Night Football, had I been alone eating nachos and gazing into the face of a cathode-ray tube.
In the early days of television, when there were only half a dozen channels at most, significant, well-written dramas on a cathode-ray tube could still make us feel like members of an attentive congregation, alone at home as we might be. There was a high probability back then, with so few shows to choose from, that friends and neighbors were watching the same show we were watching, still finding TV a whizbang miracle.
We might even call up a friend that very night, and ask a question to which we already knew the answer: “Did you see that? Wow!”
No more.

7
I wouldn’t have missed the Great Depression or my part in World War Two for anything. Trout asserted at the clambake that our war would live forever in show biz, as other wars would not, because of the uniforms of the Nazis.
He commented unfavorably on the camouflage suits our own generals wear nowadays on TV, when they describe our blasting the bejesus out of some Third World country because of petroleum. “I can’t imagine,” he said, “any part of the world where such garish pajamas would make a soldier less rather than more visible.
“We are evidently preparing,” he said, “to fight World War Three in the midst of an enormous Spanish omelet.”
He asked what relatives of mine had been wounded in wars. As far as I knew, only one. That was my great- grandfather Peter Lieber, an immigrant who became a brewer in Indianapolis after being wounded in one leg during our Civil War. He was a Freethinker, which is to say a skeptic about conventional religious beliefs, as had been Voltaire and Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin and so on. And as would be Kilgore Trout and I.
I told Trout that Peter Lieber’s Anglo-American company commander gave his men, all Freethinkers from Germany, Christian religious tracts for inspiration. Trout responded by giving his own revision of the Book of Genesis.
Fortunately, I had a tape recorder, which I turned on.
“Please stop eating and pay attention,” he said. “This is important.” He paused to press the upper plate of his false teeth against the roof of his mouth with the ball of his left thumb. It would come unstuck again every two minutes or so. He was left-handed, as was I until my parents made me switch, and as are my daughters Edith and Lily, or, as we call them affectionately, Edie Bucket and Lolly-boo.
“In the beginning there was absolutely nothing, and I mean nothing,” he said. “But nothing implies something, just as up implies down and sweet implies sour, as man implies woman and drunk implies sober and happy implies sad. I hate to tell you this, friends and neighbors, but we are teensy-weensy implications in an enormous implication. If you don’t like it here, why don’t you go back to where you came from?
“The first something to be implied by all the nothing,” he said, “was in fact two somethings, who were God and Satan. God was male. Satan was female. They implied each other, and hence were peers in the emerging power structure, which was itself nothing but an implication. Power was implied by weakness.”
“God created the heaven and the earth,” the old, long-out-of-print science fiction writer went on. “And the earth was without form, and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters. Satan could have done this herself, but she thought it was stupid, action for the sake of action. What was the point? She didn’t say anything at first.
“But Satan began to worry about God when He said, ‘Let there be light,’ and there was light. She had to wonder, ‘What in heck does He think He’s doing? How far does He intend to go, and does He expect me to help Him take care of all this crazy stuff?’
“And then the shit really hit the fan. God made man and woman, beautiful little miniatures of Him and her, and

turned them loose to see what might become of them. The Garden of Eden,” said Trout, “might be considered the prototype for the Colosseum and the Roman Games.”
“Satan,” he said, “couldn’t undo anything God had done. She could at least try to make existence for His little toys less painful. She could see what He couldn’t: To be alive was to be either bored or scared stiff. So she filled an apple with all sorts of ideas that might at least relieve the boredom, such as rules for games with cards and dice, and how to fuck, and recipes for beer and wine and whiskey, and pictures of different plants that were smokable, and so on. And instructions on how to make music and sing and dance real crazy, real sexy. And how to spout blasphemy when they stubbed their toes.
“Satan had a serpent give Eve the apple. Eve took a bite and handed it to Adam. He took a bite, and then they fucked.”
“I grant you,” said Trout, “that some of the ideas in the apple had catastrophic side effects for a minority of those who tried them.” Let it be noted here that Trout himself was not an alcoholic, a junkie, a gambler, or a sex fiend. He just wrote.
“All Satan wanted to do was help, and she did in many cases,” he concluded. “And her record for promoting nostrums with occasionally dreadful side effects is no worse than that of the most reputable pharmaceutical houses of the present day.”

8
Side effects of Satan’s booze recipes have played a deleterious part in the lives and deaths of many great American writers. In Timequake One, I envisioned a writers’ retreat called Xanadu, where each of the four guest suites was named in honor of an American winner of a Nobel Prize for Literature. The Ernest Hemingway and Eugene O’Neill were on the second floor of the mansion. The Sinclair Lewis was on the third. The John Steinbeck was in the carriage house.
Kilgore Trout exclaimed upon arriving at Xanadu, two weeks after free will kicked in again, “All four of your ink-on-paper heroes were certifiable alcoholics!”
Gambling ruined William Saroyan. A combination of booze and gambling did in the journalist Alvin Davis, a much-missed friend of mine. I asked Al one time what was the biggest kick he got from games of chance. He said it came after he had lost all his money in an around-the-clock poker game.
He went back after a few hours with money he had gotten wherever he could get it, from a friend, from hocking something, from a loanshark. And he sat down at the table and said, “Deal me in.”
The late British philosopher Bertrand Russell said he lost friends to one of three addictions: alcohol or religion or chess. Kilgore Trout was hooked on making idiosyncratic arrangements in horizontal lines, with ink on bleached and flattened wood pulp, of twenty-six phonetic symbols, ten numbers, and about eight punctuation marks. He was a black hole to anyone who might imagine that he or she was a friend of his.
I have been married twice, divorced once. Both my wives, Jane and now Jill, have said on occasion that I am much like Trout in that regard.
My mother was addicted to being rich, to servants and unlimited charge accounts, to giving lavish dinner parties, to taking frequent first-class trips to Europe. So one might say she was tormented by withdrawal symptoms all through the Great Depression.
She was acculturated!
Acculturated persons are those who find that they are no longer treated as the sort of people they thought they were, because the outside world has changed. An economic misfortune or a new technology, or being conquered by another country or political faction, can do that to people quicker than you can say “Jack Robinson.”
As Trout wrote in his “An American Family Marooned on the Planet Pluto”: “Nothing wrecks any kind of love more effectively than the discovery that your previously acceptable behavior has become ridiculous.” He said in conversation at the 2001 clambake: “If I hadn’t learned how to live without a culture and a society, acculturation would have broken my heart a thousand times.”
In Timequake One, I had Trout discard his “The Sisters B-36” in a lidless wire trash receptacle chained to a fire hydrant in front of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, way-the-hell-and-gone up on West 155th Street in Manhattan, two doors west of Broadway. This was on the afternoon of Christmas Eve, 2000, supposedly fifty-one days before the timequake zapped everybody and everything back to 1991.
The members of the Academy, I said, who were addicted to making old-fashioned art in old-fashioned ways,

without computers, were experiencing acculturation. They were like the two artistic sisters on the matriarchal planet Booboo in the Crab Nebula.
There really is an American Academy of Arts and Letters. Its palatial headquarters are where I placed them in Timequake One. There really is a fire hydrant out front. There really is a library inside, and an art gallery and reception halls and meeting rooms and staff offices, and a very grand auditorium.
By an act of Congress passed in 1916, the Academy can have no more than 250 members, American citizens, all of whom have distinguished themselves as novelists, dramatists, poets, historians, essayists, critics, composers of music, architects, painters, or sculptors. Their ranks are regularly diminished by the Grim Reaper, by death. A task of the survivors is to nominate and then, by secret ballot, elect persons to fill the vacancies.
Among the Academy’s founders were old-fashioned writers such as Henry Adams and William and Henry James, and Samuel Clemens, and the old-fashioned composer Edward MacDowell. Their audiences were necessarily small. Their own brains were all they had to work with.
I said in Timequake One that by the year 2000, crafts-people of their sort had become “as quaint,” in the opinion of the general public, “as contemporary makers in New England tourist towns of the toy windmills known since colonial times as whirligigs.”

9
Founders of the Academy at the turn of the century were contemporaneous with Thomas Alva Edison, inventor of, among other things, sound recordings and motion pictures. Before World War Two, though, these schemes for holding the attention of millions all over the world were only squawking or flickering lampoons of life itself.
The Academy occupied its present home, designed by the firm of McKim, Mead & White, and paid for by the philanthropist Archer Milton Huntington, in 1923. In that year, the American inventor Lee De Forest demonstrated apparatus that made possible the addition of sound to motion pictures.
I had a scene in Timequake One, set in the office of Monica Pepper, fictitious Executive Secretary of the Academy, on Christmas Eve, 2000. That was the afternoon on which Kilgore Trout put “The Sisters B-36” in the lidless wire trash receptacle out front, again, fifty-one days before the timequake struck.
Mrs. Pepper, wife of the wheelchair-ridden composer Zoltan Pepper, bore a striking resemblance to my late sister Allie, who hated life so much. Allie died of cancer of the everything way back in 1958, when I was thirty-six and she was forty-one, hounded by bill collectors to the very end. Both women were pretty blondes, which was OK. But they were six-foot-two! Both women were permanently acculturated in adolescence, since nowhere on Earth, save among the Watusis, did it make any sense for a woman to be that tall.
Both women were unlucky. Allie married a nice guy who lost all their money and then some in dumb businesses. Monica Pepper was the reason her husband Zoltan was paralyzed from the waist down. Two years earlier, she had accidentally landed on top of him in a swimming pool out in Aspen, Colorado. At least Allie had to die so deep in debt, and with four sons to raise, only once. After the timequake struck, Monica Pepper would have to swan-dive on top of her husband a second time.
Monica and Zoltan were talking in her office at the Academy that Christmas Eve, 2000. Zoltan was crying and laughing simultaneously. They were the same age, forty, which made them baby boomers. They didn’t have any kids. Because of her, his ding-dong didn’t work anymore. Zoltan was crying and laughing about that, certainly, but mostly about a tone-deaf kid next door, who had composed and orchestrated an acceptable, if derivative, string quartet in the manner of Beethoven, with the help of a new computer program called Wolfgang.
Nothing would do but that the father of the obnoxious kid show Zoltan the sheet music his son’s printer had spit out that morning and ask him if it was any good or not.
As though Zoltan weren’t sufficiently destabilized emotionally by legs and a ding-dong that didn’t work anymore, his older brother Frank, an architect, had committed suicide after a nearly identical blow to his self-respect only a month earlier. Yes, and Frank Pepper would eventually be popped out of his grave by the timequake, so he could blow his brains out while his wife and three kids watched a second time.
Here’s the thing: Frank went to the drugstore for condoms or chewing gum or whatever, and the pharmacist told him that his sixteen-year-old daughter had become an architect and was thinking of dropping out of high school because it was such a waste of time. She had designed a recreation center for teenagers in depressed neighborhoods with the help of a new computer program the school had bought for its vocational students, dummies who weren’t going to anything but junior colleges. It was called Palladio.

Frank went to a computer store, and asked if he could try out Palladio before buying it. He doubted very much that it could help anyone with his native talent and education. So right there in the store, and in a period of no more than half an hour, Palladio gave him what he had asked it for, working drawings that would enable a contractor to build a three-story parking garage in the manner of Thomas Jefferson.
Frank had made up the craziest assignment he could think of, confident that Palladio would tell him to take his custom elsewhere. But it didn’t! It presented him with menu after menu, asking how many cars, and in what city, because of various local building codes, and whether trucks would be allowed to use it, too, and on and on. It even asked about surrounding buildings, and whether Jeffersonian architecture would be in harmony with them. It offered to give him alternative plans in the manner of Michael Graves or I. M. Pei.
It gave him plans for the wiring and plumbing, and ballpark estimates of what it would cost to build in any part of the world he cared to name.
So Frank went home and killed himself the first time.
Laughing and crying there in his wife’s office at the Academy on the first of two Christmas Eves, 2000, Zoltan Pepper said this to his pretty but gawky wife: “It used to be said of a man who had suffered a catastrophic setback in his line of work that he had been handed his head on a platter. We are being handed our heads with tweeters now.”
He was speaking, of course, of microchips.

10
Allie died in New Jersey. She and her husband, Jim, also a native Hoosier, are buried whole in Crown Hill Cemetery in Indianapolis. So is James Whitcomb Riley, the Hoosier Poet, a never-married lush. So is John Dillinger, the beloved bank robber of the 1930s. So are our parents, Kurt and Edith, and Father’s kid brother Alex Vonnegut, the Harvard-educated life insurance salesman who said, whenever life was good, “If this isn’t nice, what is?” So are two previous generations of our parents’ forebears : a brewer, an architect, merchants and musicians, and their wives, of course.
Full house!
John Dillinger, a farm boy, escaped from jail once brandishing a wooden pistol he had whittled from a broken washtub slat. He blackened it with shoe polish! He was so entertaining. While on the run, robbing banks and vanishing into the boondocks, Dillinger wrote Henry Ford a fan letter. He thanked the old anti-Semite for making such fast and agile getaway cars!
It was possible to get away from the police back then if you were a better driver with a better car. Talk about fair play! Talk about what we say we want for everyone in America: a level playing field! And Dillinger robbed only the rich and strong, banks with armed guards, and in person.
Dillinger wasn’t a simpering, sly swindler. He was an athlete.
In the slavering search for subversive literature on the shelves of our public schools, which will never stop, the two most subversive tales of all remain untouched, wholly unsuspected. One is the story of Robin Hood. As ill educated as John Dillinger was, that was surely his inspiration: a reputable blueprint for what a real man might do with life.
The minds of children in intellectually humble American homes back then weren’t swamped with countless stories from TV sets. They heard or read only a few stories, and so could remember them, and maybe learn something from them. Everywhere in the English-speaking world, one of those was “Cinderella.” Another was “The Ugly Duckling.” Another was the story of Robin Hood.
And another, as disrespectful of established authority as the story of Robin Hood, which “Cinderella” and “The Ugly Duckling” are not, is the life of Jesus Christ as described in the New Testament.
G-men, under orders from J. Edgar Hoover, the unmarried homosexual director of the FBI, shot Dillinger dead, simply executed him as he came out of a movie theater with a date. He hadn’t pulled a gun, or lunged or dived, or tried to run away. He was like anybody else coming out into the real world after a movie, awakening from enchantment. He was killed because he had for too long made G-men, all of whom then wore fedoras, look non compos mentis, like nincompoops.
That was in 1934. I was eleven. Allie was sixteen. Allie wept and raged, and we both reviled Dillinger’s date at the movie. This bitch, and there was nothing else to call her, tipped off the feds about where Dillinger would be that night. She said she would be wearing an orange dress. The nondescript gink by her side when she came out would be the man the gay director of the FBI had branded Public Enemy Number One.
She was Hungarian. As the old saying goes: “If you have a Hungarian for a friend, you don’t need an enemy.”

Allie later had her picture taken with Dillinger’s big tombstone at Crown Hill, not far from the fence on West Thirty-eighth Street. I myself came upon it from time to time, while shooting crows with a .22 semiautomatic rifle our gun-nut father gave me for my birthday. Crows back then were classified as enemies of mankind. Given half a chance, they would eat our corn.
One kid I knew shot a golden eagle. You should have seen the wingspread!
Allie hated hunting so much that I stopped doing it, and so did Father. As I’ve written elsewhere, he had become a gun nut and hunter in order to prove that he wasn’t effeminate, even though he was in the arts, an architect and a painter and potter. In public lectures, I myself often say, “If you really want to hurt your parents, and you don’t have nerve enough to be a homosexual, the least you can do is go into the arts.”
Father supposed he could still demonstrate his manhood by fishing. But then my big brother Bernie spoiled that for him, too, saying it was as though he were smashing up Swiss pocketwatches, or some other exquisitely engineered little pieces of machinery.
I told Kilgore Trout at the clambake in 2001 about how my brother and sister had made Father ashamed of hunting and fishing. He quoted Shakespeare: “How sharper than a serpent’s tooth it is to have a thankless child!”
Trout was self-educated, never having finished high school. I was mildly surprised, then, that he could quote Shakespeare. I asked if he had committed a lot of that remarkable author’s words to memory. He said, “Yes, dear colleague, including a single sentence which describes life as lived by human beings so completely that no writer after him need ever have written another word.”
“Which sentence was that, Mr. Trout?” I asked.
And he said, “ ‘All the world’s a stage, and all the men and women merely players.’ ”

11
I wrote a letter to an old friend last spring about why I evidently couldn’t write publishable fiction anymore, after trying and failing to do that for many years. He is Edward Muir, a poet and advertising man my age living in Scars- dale. In my novel Cat’s Cradle, I say that anybody whose life keeps tangling up with yours for no logical reason is likely a member of your karass, a team God has formed to get something done for Him. Ed Muir is surely a member of my karass.
Listen to this: When I was at the University of Chicago after World War Two, Ed was there, although we did not meet. When I went to Schenectady, New York, to be a publicist for the General Electric Company, Ed went there to be a teacher at Union College. When I quit GE and moved to Cape Cod, he showed up there as a recruiter for the Great Books Program. At last we met, and whether in the service of God or not, my first wife Jane and I became leaders of a Great Books group.
And when he took an advertising job in Boston, so did I, not knowing he had done that. When Ed’s first marriage broke up, so did mine, and now we’re both in New York. My point, though, is as follows: When I sent him a letter about my case of writer’s block, he made it look like a poem and returned it.
He left off my salutation and the first few lines, which were in praise of Reader’s Block by David Markson, who had been his student at Union College. I said David shouldn’t thank Fate for letting him write such a good book in a time when large numbers of people could no longer be wowed by a novel, no matter how excellent. Something like that. I don’t have a copy of my letter as prose. As a poem, though, this is its appearance:
And no thanks to Fate.
When we’re gone, there won’t be anybody Sufficiently excited by ink on paper
To realize how good it is.
I have this ailment not unlike
Ambulatory pneumonia, which might be called Ambulatory writer’s block.
I cover paper with words every day, But the stories never go anywhere
I find worth going.
Slaughterhouse-Five has been turned
Into an opera by a young German,
And will have its premiere in Munich this June. I’m not going there either.
Not interested.
I am fond of Occam’s Razor,
Or the Law of Parsimony, which suggests
That the simplest explanation of a phenomenon Is usually the most trustworthy.
And I now believe, with David’s help, That writer’s block is finding out

How lives of loved ones really ended Instead of the way we hoped they would end With the help of our body English.
Fiction is body English.
Whatever.
It was nice of Ed to do that. Another nice story about him is from his days as a road man for Great Books. He is a minor poet, publishing occasionally in The Atlantic Monthly and suchlike. His name, though, is nearly identical with that of the major poet Edwin Muir, a Scotsman who died in 1959. Hazily sophisticated people sometimes asked him if he was the poet, meaning Edwin.
One time, when Ed told a woman he wasn’t the poet, she expressed deep disappointment. She said one of her favorite poems was “The Poet Covers His Child.” Get a load of this: It was the American Ed Muir who wrote that poem.

12
I wish I’d written Our Town. I wish I’d invented Rollerblades.
I asked A. E. Hotchner, a friend and biographer of the late Ernest Hemingway, if Hemingway had ever shot a human being, not counting himself. Hotchner said, “No.”
I asked the late great German novelist Heinrich Boll what the basic flaw was in the German character. He said, “Obedience.”
I asked one of my adopted nephews what he thought of my dancing. He said, “Acceptable.”
When I took a job in Boston as an advertising copywriter, because I was broke, an account executive asked me what kind of name Vonnegut was. I said, “German.” He said, “Germans killed six million of my cousins.”
You want to know why I don’t have AIDS, why I’m not HIV-positive like so many other people? I don’t fuck around. It’s as simple as that.
Trout said this was the story on why AIDS and new strains of syph and clap and the blueballs were making the rounds like Avon ladies run amok: On September 1st of 1945, immediately after the end of World War Two, representatives of all the chemical elements held a meeting on the planet Tralfamadore. They were there to protest some of their members’ having been incorporated into the bodies of big, sloppy, stinky organisms as cruel and stupid as human beings.
Elements such as Polonium and Ytterbium, which had never been essential parts of human beings, were nonetheless outraged that any chemicals should be so misused.
Carbon, although an embarrassed veteran of countless massacres throughout history, focused the attention of the meeting on the public execution of only one man, accused of treason in fifteenth-century England. He was hanged until almost dead. He was revived. His abdomen was slit open.
The executioner pulled out a loop of his intestines. He dangled the loop before the man’s face and burned it with a torch here and there. The loop was still attached to the rest of the man’s insides. The executioner and his assistants tied a horse to each of his four limbs.
They whipped the horses, which ripped the man into four jagged pieces. These were hung on display from meathooks in a marketplace.

It had been agreed before the meeting was called to order that no one was to tell of terrible things grown-up human beings had done to children, according to Trout. Several delegates threatened to boycott the meeting if they were expected to sit still while listening to tales that sickening. What would be the point?
“What grownups had done to grownups left no doubt that the human race should be exterminated,” said Trout. “Rehashing ad nauseam what grownups had done to children would be gilding the lily, so to speak.”
Nitrogen wept about its involuntary servitude as parts of Nazi guards and physicians in death camps during World War Two. Potassium told hair-raising stories about the Spanish Inquisition, and Calcium about the Roman Games, and Oxygen about black African slavery.
Sodium said enough was enough, that any further testimony would be coals to Newcastle. It made a motion that all chemicals involved in medical research combine whenever possible to create ever more powerful antibiotics. These in turn would cause disease organisms to evolve new strains that were resistant to them.
In no time, Sodium predicted, every human ailment, including acne and jock itch, would be not only incurable but fatal. “All humans will die,” said Sodium, according to Trout. “As they were at the birth of the Universe, all elements will be free of sin again.”
Iron and Magnesium seconded Sodium’s motion. Phosphorus called for a vote. The motion was passed by acclamation.

13
Kilgore Trout was right next door to the American Academy of Arts and Letters on Christmas Eve, 2000, when Zoltan Pepper said to his wife that people were now getting their heads handed to them with tweezers instead of on platters. Trout couldn’t hear him. There was a thick masonry wall between them as the paraplegic composer ranted on about the seeming mania for making people compete with machines that were smarter than they were.
Pepper asked this rhetorical question: “Why is it so important that we all be humiliated, with such ingenuity and at such great expense? We never thought we were such hot stuff in the first place.”
Trout was sitting on his cot in a shelter for homeless men that was once the Museum of the American Indian. Arguably the most prolific writer of short stories in history, he had been caught by the police in a sweep of the New York Public Library down at Fifth Avenue and Forty-second Street. He and about thirty others who had been living there, what Trout called “sacred cattle,” were carted off in a black school bus and deposited in the shelter way-the- hell-and-gone up on West 155th Street.
The Museum of the American Indian had moved the detritus of overwhelmed aborigines, and dioramas of how they lived before the shit hit the fan, into a safer neighborhood downtown, five years before Trout arrived.
He was eighty-four years old now, having passed another milestone on November 11th, 2000. He would die on Labor Day, 2001, still eighty-four. But by then the timequake would have given him and all the rest of us an unexpected bonus, if you can call it that, of another ten years.
He would write of the rerun when it was over, in a never-to-be-finished memoir entitled My Ten Years on Automatic Pilot: “Listen, if it isn’t a timequake dragging us through knothole after knothole, it’s something else just as mean and powerful.”
“This was a man,” I said in Timequake One, “an only child, whose father, a college professor in Northampton, Massachusetts, murdered his mother when the man was only twelve years old.”
I said Trout had been a hobo, throwing away his stories instead of offering them to publications, since the autumn of 1975. I said that was after he received news of the death of his own only child, Leon, a deserter from the United States Marine Corps. Leon, I said, was accidentally decapitated in a shipyard accident in Sweden, where he had been granted political asylum and was working as a welder.
I said Trout was fifty-nine when he hit the road, never to have a home again until he was given, when he was about to die, the Ernest Hemingway Suite at the Rhode Island writers’ retreat called Xanadu.
When Trout checked into the former Museum of the American Indian, a former reminder of the most extensive and persistent genocide known to history, “The Sisters B-36” was burning a hole in his pocket, so to speak. He had finished the story at the Public Library downtown, but the police had taken him into custody before he could get rid of it.

So he kept his war-surplus Navy overcoat on when he told the clerk at the shelter that his name was Vincent van Gogh, and that he had no living relatives. Then he went outdoors again, and it was cold enough to freeze the balls off a brass monkey out there, and he put the manuscript into the lidless wire trash receptacle, which was chained and padlocked to a fire hydrant in front of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
When he got back into the shelter, after an absence of ten minutes, the clerk said to him, “Where have you been? We all sure missed you, Vince.” And he told him where his cot was. It was butted up against the companion wall between the shelter and the Academy.
On the Academy side of the wall, hanging over the rosewood desk of Monica Pepper, was a painting of a bleached cow’s skull on a desert floor, by Georgia O’Keeffe. On Trout’s side, right over the head of his cot, was a poster telling him never to stick his ding-dong into anything without first putting on a condom.
After the timequake hit, and then the rerun was finally over, and free will had kicked in again, Trout and Monica would get to know each other. Her desk, incidentally, had once belonged to the novelist Henry James. Her chair had once belonged to the composer and conductor Leonard Bernstein.
When Trout realized how close his cot had been to her desk during the fifty-one days before the timequake struck, he would remark as follows: “If I’d had a bazooka, I could have blown a hole in the wall between us. If I hadn’t killed one or both of us, I could have asked you, ‘What’s a nice girl like you doing in a place like that?’ ”

14
A bum on a cot next to Trout’s at the shelter wished him a Merry Christmas. Trout replied, “Ting-a-ling! Ting-a- ling!”
It was only by chance that his reply was appropriate to the holiday, alluding, one might suppose, to the bells of Santa Claus’s sleigh on a rooftop. But Trout would have said “Ting-a-ling” to anybody who offered him an empty greeting, such as “How’s it goin’?” or “Nice day” or whatever, no matter what the season.
Depending on his body language and tone of voice and social circumstances, he could indeed make it mean “And a merry Christmas to you, too.” But it would also mean, like the Hawaiian’s aloha, “Hello” or “Good-bye.” The old science fiction writer could make it mean “Please” or “Thanks” as well, or “Yes” or “No,” or “I couldn’t agree with you more,” or “If your brains were dynamite, there wouldn’t be enough to blow your hat off.”
I asked him at Xanadu in the summer of 2001 how “Ting-a-ling” had become such a frequent appoggiatura, or grace note, in his conversations. He gave me what would later turn out to have been a superficial explanation. “It was something I crowed during the war,” he said, “when an artillery barrage I’d called for landed right on target: ‘Ting- a-ling! Ting-a-ling!’ ”
About an hour later, and this was on the afternoon before the clambake, he beckoned me into his suite with a crooked finger. He closed the door behind us. “You really want to know about ‘Ting-a-ling’?” he asked me.
I had been satisfied with his first account. Trout was the one who wanted me to hear much more. My innocent question earlier had triggered memories of his ghastly childhood in Northampton. He could exorcise them only by telling what they were.
“My father murdered my mother,” said Kilgore Trout, “when I was twelve years old.”
“Her body was in our basement,” said Trout, “but all I knew was that she had disappeared. Father swore he had no idea what had become of her. He said, as wife-murderers often do, that maybe she had gone to visit relatives. He killed her that morning, after I left for school.
“He got supper for the two of us that night. Father said he would report her as a missing person to the police the next morning, if we hadn’t heard from her by then. He said, ‘She has been very tired and nervous lately. Have you noticed that?’ ”
“He was insane,” said Trout. “How insane? He came into my bedroom at midnight. He woke me up. He said he had something important to tell me. It was nothing but a dirty joke, but this poor, sick man had come to believe it a parable about the awful blows that life had dealt him. It was about a fugitive who sought shelter from the police in the home of a woman he knew.
“Her living room had a cathedral ceiling, which is to say it went all the way up to the roof peak, with rustic rafters spanning the air space below.” Trout paused. It was as though he were as caught up in the tale as his father must have been.
He went on, there in the suite named in honor of the suicide Ernest Hemingway: “She was a widow, and he stripped himself naked while she went to fetch some of her husband’s clothes. But before he could put them on, the police were hammering on the front door with their billy clubs. So the fugitive hid on top of a rafter. When the woman let in the police, though, his oversize testicles hung down in full view.”

Trout paused again.
“The police asked the woman where the guy was. The woman said she didn’t know what guy they were talking about,” said Trout. “One of the cops saw the testicles hanging down from a rafter and asked what they were. She said they were Chinese temple bells. He believed her. He said he’d always wanted to hear Chinese temple bells.
“He gave them a whack with his billy club, but there was no sound. So he hit them again, a lot harder, a whole lot harder. Do you know what the guy on the rafter shrieked?” Trout asked me.
I said I didn’t.
“He shrieked, ‘TING-A-LING, YOU SON OF A BITCH!’ ”

15
The Academy should have moved its staff and treasures to a safer neighborhood when the Museum of the American Indian did so with its genocide mementos. It was still stuck way-the-hell-and-gone uptown, amid nothing but people with lives not worth living for miles in every direction, because its dwindling and demoralized membership couldn’t bestir itself to OK a move.
To be perfectly frank, the only people who cared what became of the Academy were its staff, office workers, cleaning and maintenance people, and armed guards. Nor were most of them enraptured by old-fashioned art practices. They needed the jobs, no matter how pointless the work might be, and so were reminiscent of people during the Great Depression of the 1930s, who celebrated when they got any kind of work at all.
Trout characterized the sort of work he was able to get back then as “cleaning birdshit out of cuckoo clocks.”
The Academy’s Executive Secretary certainly needed the work. Monica Pepper, who looked so much like my sister Allie, was the sole support of herself and her husband Zoltan, whom she had rendered hors de combat with a swan dive. So she had fortified the building by replacing the wooden front door with half-inch steel armorplate, fitted with a whoozit, or peephole, which could also be closed and locked.
She had done all she could to make the place look as abandoned and looted as the ruins of Columbia University two miles to the south. The windows, like the front door, were shuttered with steel, and the shutters were concealed in turn by rough plywood painted black and camouflaged with graffiti, which ran continuously across the whole façade. The staff had done the garish artwork. Monica herself had spray-painted “FUCK ART!” in orange and purple across the steel front door.
It so happened that an African-American armed guard named Dudley Prince was looking out through that door’s whoozit when Trout put “The Sisters B-36” in the trash receptacle out front. Bums interacting with the receptacle were no novelty, God knows, but Trout, whom Prince mistook for a bag lady rather than a bag gentleman, put on an unusual show out there.
Here’s the thing about Trout’s appearance from a distance: Instead of trousers, he wore three layers of thermal underwear, revealing the shapes of his calves below the hem of his unisex war-surplus Navy overcoat. Yes, and he wore sandals rather than boots, another seemingly feminine touch, as was his babushka, fashioned from a crib blanket printed with red balloons and blue teddy bears.
Trout was out there talking to and gesturing at the lidless wire basket as though it were an editor in an old- fashioned book-publishing house, and as though his four-page handwritten yellow manuscript were a great novel, sure to sell like hotcakes. He wasn’t remotely crazy. He would later say of his performance: “It was the world that had suffered the nervous breakdown. I was just having fun in a nightmare, arguing with an imaginary editor about the advertising budget, and about who should play whom in the movie, and personal appearances on TV shows and so on, perfectly harmless funny stuff.”
His behavior was so outré that a genuine bag lady passing by asked him, “Are you OK, honey?” To which Trout replied with all possible gusto, “Ting-a-ling! Ting-a-ling!”
When Trout returned to the shelter, though, the armed guard Dudley Prince unbolted the steel front door and, motivated by boredom and curiosity, retrieved the manuscript. He wanted to know what it was a bag lady, with every reason to commit suicide, one would think, had deep-sixed so ecstatically.

16
Here, for whatever it may be worth, and from Timequake One, is Kilgore Trout’s explanation of the timequake and its aftershocks, the rerun, excerpted from his unfinished memoir My Ten Years on Automatic Pilot:
“The timequake of 2001 was a cosmic charley horse in the sinews of Destiny. At what was in New York City 2:27 p.m. on February 13th of that year, the Universe suffered a crisis in self-confidence. Should it go on expanding indefinitely? What was the point?
“It fibrillated with indecision. Maybe it should have a family reunion back where it all began, and then make a great big BANG again.
“It suddenly shrunk ten years. It zapped me and everybody else back to February 17th, 1991, what was for me 7:51 a.m., and a line outside a blood bank in San Diego, California.
“For reasons best known to itself, though, the Universe canceled the family reunion, for the nonce at least. It resumed expansion. Which faction, if any, cast the deciding votes on whether to expand or shrink, I cannot say. Despite my having lived for eighty-four years, or ninety-four, if you want to count the rerun, many questions about the Universe remain for me unanswered.
“That the rerun lasted ten years, short a mere four days, some are saying now, is proof that there is a God, and that He is on the Decimal System. He has ten fingers and ten toes, just as we do, they say, and uses them when He does arithmetic.
“I have my doubts. I can’t help it. That’s the way I am. Even if my father, the ornithologist Professor Raymond Trout of Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts, hadn’t murdered my mother, a housewife and poet, I believe I would have been that way. Then again, I have never made a serious study of the different religions, and so am unqualified to comment. About all I know for certain is that devout Muslims do not believe in Santa Claus.”
On the first of the two Christmas Eves, 2000, the still religious African-American armed guard Dudley Prince thought Trout’s “The Sisters B-36” just might be a message for the Academy from God Himself. What happened to the planet Booboo, after all, wasn’t a whole lot different from what seemed to be happening to his own planet, and especially to his employers, what was left of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, way-the-hell-and-gone up on West 155th Street, two doors west of Broadway.
Trout got to know Prince, just as he got to know Monica Pepper and me, after the rerun ended and free will had kicked in again. Because of what the timequake had done to Prince, he had become as contemptuous of the idea of a wise and just God as my sister Allie had been. Allie opined one time, not just about her life but everybody’s life, “If there is a God, He sure hates people. That’s all I can say.”
When Trout heard about how seriously Prince had taken “The Sisters B-36” on the first Christmas Eve, 2000, about how Prince believed a bag lady had put on such a show while throwing the yellow manuscript pages away to ensure that Prince would wonder what they were and retrieve them, the old science fiction writer commented: “Perfectly understandable, Dudley. For anybody who could believe in God, as you once did, it would be a piece of cake to believe in the planet Booboo.”
Get a load of what was going to happen to Dudley Prince, a monumental figure of authority and decency in the uniform of the security company that protected the beleaguered Academy around the clock, a holstered pistol at his hip, only fifty-one days from the first of the two Christmas Eves, 2000: The timequake was going to zap him back

into a solitary confinement cell, into the hole, within the walls and towers of the New York State Maximum Security Adult Correctional Facility at Athena, sixty miles south of his hometown of Rochester, where he used to own a little video rental store.
To be sure, the timequake had made him ten years younger, but that was no break in his case. It meant he was again serving two consecutive life sentences, without hope of parole, for the rape and murder of a ten-year-old girl of Chinese-American and Italian-American parentage, Kimberly Wang, in a Rochester crack house, of which he was entirely innocent!
Granted, at the start of the rerun Dudley Prince could remember, as could the rest of us, everything that was going to happen to him during the next ten years. He knew that in seven years he would be exonerated by DNA tests of dried ejaculate material on the victim’s panties. This exculpatory evidence would again be found languishing in a glassine envelope in the walk-in vault of the District Attorney who had framed him in the hopes of being nominated for Governor.
And, oh yes, that same DA would be found wearing cement overshoes on the bottom of Lake Cayuga in just six more years. Prince meanwhile was going to have to earn a High School Equivalency Certificate again, and make Jesus the center of his life again, and on and on.
And then, after he was sprung again, he would have to go on TV talk shows again with other people who had been wrongly incarcerated and then rightly exonerated, to say prison was the luckiest thing that ever happened to him because he found Jesus there.

17
On either one of the two Christmas Eves, 2000, and it didn’t matter which, except for people’s opinions of what was going on, the ex-jailbird Dudley Prince delivered “The Sisters B-36” to Monica Pepper’s office. Her husband Zoltan in his wheelchair was predicting the end of literacy in the not-too-distant future.
“The prophet Mohammed couldn’t do it,” Zoltan was saying. “Jesus, Mary, and Joseph probably couldn’t do it, Mary Magdalen couldn’t do it. The Emperor Charlemagne confessed he couldn’t do it. It was just too hard! Nobody in the whole Western Hemisphere could do it, not even the sophisticated Mayas and Incas and Aztecs could imagine how to do it, until the Europeans came.
“Most Europeans back then couldn’t read and write, either. The few who could were specialists. I promise you, sweetheart, thanks to TV that will very soon be the case again.”
And then Dudley Prince said, rerun or not, “Excuse me, but I think maybe somebody is trying to tell us something.”
Monica read “The Sisters B-36” quickly, with increasing impatience, and declared it ridiculous. She handed it to her husband. But he got no further than the name of the author before he became electrified. “My God, my God,” he exclaimed, “after a quarter of a century of perfect silence, Kilgore Trout has come into my life again!”
Here’s the explanation of Zoltan Pepper’s reaction: When Zoltan was a high school sophomore in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, he copied a story from one of his father’s collection of old science fiction magazines. He submitted it to his English teacher, Mrs. Florence Wilkerson, as his own creation. It was one of the last stories Kilgore Trout would ever submit to a publisher. By the time Zoltan was a sophomore, Trout was a bum.
The plagiarized story was about a planet in another galaxy, where the little green people, each with only one eye in the middle of his or her forehead, could get food only if they could sell goods or services to somebody else. The planet ran out of customers, and nobody could think of anything sensible to do about that. All the little green people starved to death.
Mrs. Wilkerson suspected plagiarism. Zoltan confessed, thinking it was a funny rather than a serious thing he’d done. To him, plagiarism was what Trout would have called a mopery, “indecent exposure in the presence of a blind person of the same sex.”
Mrs. Wilkerson decided to teach Zoltan a lesson. She had him write, “I STOLE PROPERTY FROM KILGORE TROUT,” on the blackboard while the class watched. Then, for the next week, she made him wear a shirt cardboard with the letter P on it, hung on his chest from around his neck, whenever he was in her classroom. She could get the piss sued out of her for doing that to a student nowadays. But then was then, and now is now.
The inspiration for what Mrs. Wilkerson did to young Zoltan Pepper was of course The Scarlet Letter by Nathaniel Hawthorne. In that one, a woman has to wear a big A for adultery on her bosom because she let a man not her husband ejaculate in her birth canal. She won’t tell what his name is. He’s a preacher!
Since Dudley Prince said it was a bag lady who had put the story in the trash receptacle out front, Zoltan didn’t consider the possibility that it had been Trout himself. “It could have been his daughter or granddaughter,” he speculated. “Trout himself must have died years ago. I certainly hope so, and may his soul rot in Hell.”
But Trout was right next door! He was feeling just great! He was so relieved at having gotten rid of “The Sisters B-36” that he had started another story. He had been completing a story every ten days, on average, since he was fourteen. That was thirty-six a year, say. This one could have been his twenty-five-hundredth! It wasn’t set on another planet. It was set in the office of a psychiatrist in St. Paul, Minnesota.

The name of the shrink was the name of the story, too, which was “Dr. Schadenfreude.” This doctor had his patients lie on a couch and talk, all right, but they could ramble on only about dumb or crazy things that had happened to total strangers in supermarket tabloids or on TV talk shows.
If a patient accidentally said “I” or “me” or “my” or “myself” or “mine,” Dr. Schadenfreude went ape. He leapt out of his overstuffed leather chair. He stamped his feet. He flapped his arms.
He put his livid face directly over the patient. He snarled and barked things like this: “When will you ever learn that nobody cares anything about you, you, you, you boring, insignificant piece of poop? Your whole problem is you think you matter! Get over that, or sashay your stuck-up butt the hell out of here!”

18
A bum on a cot next to Trout’s asked him what he was writing. It was the opening paragraph of “Dr. Schadenfreude.” Trout said it was a story. The bum said maybe Trout could get some money from the people next door. When Trout heard it was the American Academy of Arts and Letters next door, he said, “It might as well be a Chinese barber college as far as I’m concerned. I don’t write literature. Literature is all those la-di-da monkeys next door care about.
“Those artsy-fartsy twerps next door create living, breathing, three-dimensional characters with ink on paper,” he went on. “Wonderful! As though the planet weren’t already dying because it has three billion too many living, breathing, three-dimensional characters!”
The only people next door, actually, of course, were Monica and Zoltan Pepper, and the three-man day shift of armed guards, headed by Dudley Prince. Monica had given her office and janitorial staffs the day off for last-minute Christmas shopping. As it happened, they were all Christian or agnostic or apostate.
The night shift of armed guards would be entirely Muslim. As Trout would write at Xanadu, in My Ten Years on Automatic Pilot: “Muslims do not believe in Santa Claus.”
“In my entire career as a writer,” said Trout in the former Museum of the American Indian, “I created only one living, breathing, three-dimensional character. I did it with my ding-dong in a birth canal. Ting-a-ling!” He was referring to his son Leon, the deserter from the United States Marines in time of war, subsequently decapitated in a Swedish shipyard.
“If I’d wasted my time creating characters,” Trout said, “I would never have gotten around to calling attention to things that really matter: irresistible forces in nature, and cruel inventions, and cockamamie ideals and governments and economies that make heroes and heroines alike feel like something the cat drug in.”
Trout might have said, and it can be said of me as well, that he created caricatures rather than characters. His animus against so-called mainstream literature, moreover, wasn’t peculiar to him. It was generic among writers of science fiction.

19
Strictly speaking, many of Trout’s stories, except for their unbelievable characters, weren’t science fiction at all. “Dr. Schadenfreude” wasn’t, unless one is humorless enough to regard psychiatry as a science. The one he deposited in the Academy’s trash receptacle after “Dr. Schadenfreude,” with the timequake drawing ever nearer, “Bunker Bingo Party,” was a roman à clef.
That one was set in Adolf Hitler’s commodious bombproof bunker underneath the ruins of Berlin, Germany, at the end of World War Two in Europe. In that story, Trout calls his war, and my war, also, “Western Civilization’s second unsuccessful attempt to commit suicide.” He did that in conversations, too, one time adding in my presence, “If at first you don’t succeed, try, try, please try again.”
Tanks and infantry of the Soviet Union are only a few hundred yards away from the bunker’s iron door up at street level. “Hitler, trapped below, the most loathsome human being who ever lived,” wrote Trout, “doesn’t know whether to shit or go blind. He is down there with his mistress Eva Braun and a few close friends, including Joseph Goebbels, his Minister of Propaganda, and Goebbels’s wife and kids.”
For want of anything else remotely decisive to do, Hitler proposes marriage to Eva. She accepts!
At this point in the story, Trout asked this rhetorical question, an aside with a paragraph all to itself: “What the heck?”
Everybody forgets his or her troubles during the marriage ceremony. After the groom kisses the bride, though, the party goes flat again. “Goebbels has a clubfoot,” Trout wrote. “But Goebbels has always had a clubfoot. That is not the problem.”
Goebbels remembers that his kids have brought the game of Bingo with them. It was captured intact from American troops during the Battle of the Bulge some four months earlier. I myself was captured intact during that battle. Germany, in order to conserve its resources, has stopped making its own Bingo games. Because of that, and because the grownups in the bunker have been so busy during the rise of Hitler, and now his fall, the Goebbels kids are the only ones who know how the game is played. They learned from a neighbor kid, whose family owned a prewar Bingo set.
There is this amazing scene in the story: A boy and a girl, explaining the rules of Bingo, become the center of the Universe for Nazis in full regalia, including a gaga Adolf Hitler.
That we have a copy of “Bunker Bingo Party,” and copies of the four other stories Trout threw away in front of the Academy before the timequake hit, is due to Dudley Prince. The first time through, when the decade was original material, he continued to believe, as Monica Pepper did not, that a bag lady was using the trash receptacle for a mailbox, knowing he would be watching her crazy dances through the whoozit in the steel front door.
Prince retrieved each story and pondered it, hoping to discover some important message from a higher power encoded therein. After work, rerun or not, this was a lonely African-American.

20
In the summer of 2001 at Xanadu, Dudley Prince handed Trout the sheaf of stories, which Trout had expected the Department of Sanitation to incinerate or bury or drop in the ocean far offshore before anyone other than himself had read them. By his own account to me, Trout riffled through the scruffy pages with distaste, while seated tailor- fashion and naked on his king-size bed in the Ernest Hemingway Suite. The day was hot. He was fresh from his Jacuzzi.
But then his gaze fell upon the scene in which two anti-Semitic children teach Bingo to high-ranking Nazis in their madly theatrical uniforms. In amazed admiration for something brilliant he himself had written, and Trout had never thought of himself as worth a hill of beans as a writer, he praised the scene as an echo of this prophecy from the Book of Isaiah:
“The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a little child shall lead them.”
A fatling is any young animal fattened for slaughter.
“I read that scene,” Trout told me and Monica, “and I asked myself, ‘How the hell did I do that?’ ”
That wasn’t the first time I’d heard a person who had done a remarkable piece of work ask that delightful question. Back in the 1960s, long, long before the timequake, I had a great big old house in Barnstable Village on Cape Cod, where my first wife, Jane Marie Vonnegut, née Cox, and I were raising four boys and two girls. The ell where I did my writing was falling down.
I had it pulled all the way down and hauled away. I hired my friend Ted Adler, a skilled man-of-all-work my age, to build me a new one like the old one. Ted alone built the forms for the footings. Ted supervised the pouring of concrete from a ready-mix truck. He personally laid concrete blocks atop the footings. He framed the superstructure, put on the sheathing and siding, and shingled the roof and wired the place. He hung the windows and doors. He nailed up and jointed the Sheetrock inside.
The Sheetrock was the last step. I myself would do the exterior and interior painting. I told Ted I wanted to do at least that much, or he would have done that, too. When he himself had finished, and he had taken all the scraps I , didn’t want for kindling to the dump, he had me stand next to him outside and look at my new ell from thirty feet away.
And then he asked it: “How the hell did I do that?”
That question remains for me in the summer of 1996 one of my three favorite quotations. Two of the three are questions rather than good advice of any kind. The second is Jesus Christ’s “Who is it they say I am?”
The third is from my son Mark, pediatrician and watercolorist and sax player. I’ve already quoted him in another book: “We are here to help each other get through this thing, whatever it is.”
One might protest, “My dear Dr. Vonnegut, we can’t all be pediatricians.”
In “Bunker Bingo Party,” the Nazis participate in Bingo, with the Minister of Propaganda, arguably the most

effective communicator in history, calling out the coordinates of winning or losing squares on the players’ cards. The game proves as analgesic for war criminals in deep doodoo as it continues to be for harmless old biddies at church fairs.
Several of the war criminals wear an Iron Cross, awarded only to Germans who have demonstrated battlefield fearlessness so excessive as to be classifiable as psychopathic. Hitler wears one. He won it as a corporal in Western Civilization’s first unsuccessful attempt to commit suicide.
I was a PFC during the second botched effort to end it all. Like Ernest Hemingway, I never shot a human being. Maybe Hitler never did that big trick, either. He didn’t get his country’s highest decoration for killing a lot of people. He got it for being such a brave messenger. Not everybody on a battlefield is supposed to concentrate on nothing but killing. I myself was an intelligence and reconnaissance scout, going places our side hadn’t occupied, looking for enemies. I wasn’t supposed to fight them if I found them. I was supposed to stay unnoticed and alive, so I could tell my superiors where they were, and what it looked like they were doing.
It was wintertime, and I myself was awarded my country’s second-lowest decoration, a Purple Heart for frost-bite.
When I got home from my war, my uncle Dan clapped me on the back, and he bellowed, “You’re a man now!” I damn near killed my first German.
To return to Trout’s roman à clef: As though there were a God in Heaven after all, it is Der Führer who shouts “BINGO!” Adolf Hitler wins! He says incredulously, in German, of course, “I can’t believe it. I’ve never played this game before, and yet I’ve won, I’ve won! What can this be but a miracle?” He is a Roman Catholic.
He rises from his chair at the table. His eyes are still fixed on the winning card before him, according to Trout, “as if it were a shred from the Shroud of Turin.” This prick asks, “What can this mean but that things aren’t as bad as we thought they were?”
Eva Braun spoils the moment by swallowing a capsule of cyanide. Goebbels’s wife gave it to her for a wedding present. Frau Goebbels had more capsules than she needed for her immediate family. Trout wrote of Eva Braun, “Her only crime was to have allowed a monster to ejaculate in her birth canal. These things happen to the best of women.”
A Communistic 240-millimeter howitzer shell explodes atop the bunker. Flakes of calcimine from the shaken ceiling shower down on the deafened occupants. Hitler himself makes a joke, demonstrating that he still has his sense of humor. “It snows,” he says. That is a poetic way of saying, too, it is high time he killed himself, unless he wants to become a caged superstar in a traveling freak show, along with the bearded lady and the geek.
He puts a pistol to his head. Everybody says, “Nein, nein, nein.” He convinces everyone that shooting himself is the dignified thing to do. What should his last words be? He says, “How about ‘I regret nothing’?”
Goebbels replies that such a statement would be appropriate, but that the Parisian cabaret performer Edith Piaf has made a worldwide reputation by singing those same words in French for decades. “Her sobriquet,” says Goebbels, “is ‘Little Sparrow.’ You don’t want to be remembered as a little sparrow, or I miss my guess.”
Hitler still hasn’t lost his sense of humor. He says, “How about ‘BINGO’?”
But he is tired. He puts the pistol to his head again. He says, “I never asked to be born in the first place.” The pistol goes “BANG!”

21
I am Honorary President of the American Humanist Association, whose headquarters in Amherst, New York, I have never seen. I succeeded the late author and biochemist Dr. Isaac Asimov in that functionless capacity. That we have an organization, a boring business, is to let others know we are numerous. We would prefer to live our lives as Humanists and not talk about it, or think more about it than we think about breathing.
Humanists try to behave decently and honorably without any expectation of rewards or punishments in an afterlife. The creator of the Universe has been to us unknowable so far. We serve as well as we can the highest abstraction of which we have some understanding, which is our community.
Are we enemies of members of organized religions? No. My great war buddy Bernard V. O’Hare, now dead, lost his faith as a Roman Catholic during World War Two. I didn’t like that. I thought that was too much to lose.
I had never had faith like that, because I had been raised by interesting and moral people who, like Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin, were nonetheless skep-tics about what preachers said was going on. But I knew Bernie had lost something important and honorable.
Again, I did not like that, did not like it because I liked him so much.
I spoke at a Humanist Association memorial service for Dr. Asimov a few years back. I said, “Isaac is up in Heaven now.” That was the funniest thing I could have said to an audience of Humanists. I rolled them in the aisles. The room was like the court-martial scene in Trout’s “No Laughing Matter,” right before the floor of the Pacific Ocean swallowed up the third atomic bomb and Joy’s Pride and all the rest of it.
When I myself am dead, God forbid, I hope some wag will say about me, “He’s up in Heaven now.”
I like to sleep. I published a new requiem for old music in another book, in which I said it was no bad thing to want sleep for everyone as an afterlife.
I see no need up in the sky for more torture chambers and Bingo games.
Yesterday, Wednesday, July 3rd, 1996, I received a well-written letter from a man who never asked to be born in the first place, and who has been a captive of our nonpareil correctional facilities, first as a juvenile offender and then as an adult offender, for many years. He is about to be released into a world where he has no friends or relatives. Free will is about to kick in again, after a hiatus of a good deal more than a decade. What should he do?
I, Honorary President of the American Humanist Association, wrote back today, “Join a church.” I said this because what such a grown-up waif needs more than anything is something like a family.
I couldn’t recommend Humanism for such a person. I wouldn’t do so for the great majority of the planet’s

population.
The German philosopher Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche, who had syphilis, said that only a person of deep faith could afford the luxury of religious skepticism. Humanists, by and large educated, comfortably middle-class persons with rewarding lives like mine, find rapture enough in secular knowledge and hope. Most people can’t.
Voltaire, French author of Candide, and therefore the Humanists’ Abraham, concealed his contempt for the hierarchy of the Roman Catholic Church from his less educated, simpler-minded, and more frightened employees, because he knew what a stabilizer their religion was for them.
With some trepidation, I told Trout in the summer of 2001 about my advice to the man soon to be expelled from prison. He asked if I had heard from this person again, if I knew what had become of him in the intervening five years, or in the intervening ten years, if we wanted to count the rerun. I hadn’t and didn’t.
He asked if I myself had ever tried to join a church, just for the hell of it, to find out what that was like. He had. The closest I ever came to that, I said, was when my second-wife-to-be, Jill Krementz, and I thought it would be cute, and also ritzy, to be married in the Little Church Around the Corner, a Disneyesque Episcopal house of worship on East Twenty-ninth Street off Fifth Avenue in Manhattan.
“When they found out I was a divorced person,” I said, “they prescribed all sorts of penitent services I was to perform before I was clean enough to be married there.”
“There you are,” said Trout. “Imagine all the chickenshit you’d have to go through if you were an ex-con. And if that poor son of a bitch who wrote you really did find a church to accept him, he could easily be back in prison.”
“For what?” I said. “For robbing the poor box?”
“No,” said Trout, “for delighting Jesus Christ by shooting dead a doctor coming to work in an abortion mill.”

22
I forget what I was doing on the afternoon of February 13th, 2001, when the timequake struck. It couldn’t have been much. I sure as heck wasn’t writing another book. I was seventy-eight, for heaven’s sakes! My daughter Lily was eighteen!
Old Kilgore Trout was still writing, though. Seated on his cot at the shelter, where everybody thought his name was Vincent van Gogh, he had just begun a story about a working-class Londoner, Albert Hardy, also the name of the story. Albert Hardy was born in 1896, with his head between his legs, and his genitalia sprouting out of the top of his neck, which looked “like a zucchini.”
Albert’s parents taught him to walk on his hands and eat with his feet. That was so they could conceal his private parts with trousers. The private parts weren’t excessively large like the testicles of the fugitive in Trout’s father’s Ting-a-ling parable. That wasn’t the point.
Monica Pepper was at her desk next door, only feet away, but they still hadn’t met. She and Dudley Prince and her husband still believed the depositor of stories in the trash receptacle out front was an old woman, so she couldn’t possibly live next door. Their best guess was that she came from the shelter for battered old people over on Convent Avenue, or the detox center in the parish house down at the Cathedral of Saint John the Divine, which was unisex.
Monica’s own home, and Zoltan’s, was an apartment down in Turtle Bay, a safe neighborhood seven miles away, comfortingly close to the United Nations. She came and went from work in her own chauffeur-driven limousine, which was modified to accommodate Zoltan’s wheelchair. The Academy was fabulously well-to-do. Money was not a problem. Thanks to lavish gifts from old-fashioned art lovers in the past, it was richer than several members of the United Nations, including, surely, Mali, Swaziland, and Luxembourg.
Zoltan had the limo that afternoon. He was on his way to pick up Monica. She was awaiting Zoltan’s arrival when the timequake struck. He would get as far as ringing the Academy doorbell before he was zapped back to February 17th, 1991. He would be ten years younger and whole again!
Talk about getting a reaction from a doorbell!
When the rerun was over, though, and free will kicked in again, everybody and everything were exactly where they had been when the timequake struck. So Zoltan was paraplegic again in a wheelchair, ringing the doorbell again. He didn’t realize that it was all of a sudden up to him to decide what his finger was going to do next. His finger, for want of instructions from him or anything else, went on ringing and ringing the doorbell.
That’s what it was doing when Zoltan was smacked by a runaway fire truck. The driver of the truck hadn’t realized yet that it was up to him to steer the thing.
As Trout wrote in My Ten Years on Automatic Pilot: “It was free will that did all the damage. The timequake and its aftershocks didn’t snap as much as a single strand in a spider’s web, unless some other force had snapped that strand the first time through.”
Monica was working on the budget for Xanadu when the timequake struck. The endowment of that writers’ retreat up in Point Zion, Rhode Island, the Julius King Bowen Foundation, was administered by the Academy. Julius King Bowen, who died before Monica was born, was a never-married white man who made a fortune during the 1920s and early 1930s with stories and lectures about the hilarious, but touching, too, efforts by American black people to imitate successful American white people, so they could be successful, too.

A cast-iron historical marker on the border between Point Zion’s public beach and Xanadu said the mansion had been Bowen’s home and place of work from 1922 until his death in 1936. It said President Warren G. Harding had proclaimed Bowen “Laughter Laureate of the United States, Master of Darky Dialects, and Heir to the Crown of King of Humor Once Worn by Mark Twain.”
As Trout would point out to me when I read that marker in 2001: “Warren G. Harding sired an illegitimate daughter by ejaculating in the birth canal of a stenographer in a broom closet at the White House.”

23
When Trout was zapped back to a line outside a blood bank in San Diego, California, in 1991, he could remember how his story about the guy with his head between his legs and his ding-dong atop his neck, “Albert Hardy,” would end. But he couldn’t write that finale for ten years, until free will kicked in again. Albert Hardy would be blown to pieces while a soldier in the Second Battle of the Somme in World War One.
Albert Hardy’s dogtags wouldn’t be found. His body parts would be reassembled as though he had been like everybody else, with his head atop his neck. He couldn’t be given back his ding-dong. To be perfectly frank, his ding-dong wouldn’t have been what you might call the subject of an exhaustive search.
Albert Hardy would be buried under an Eternal Flame in France, in the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, “normal at last.”
I myself was zapped back to this house near the tip of Long Island, New York, where I am writing now, halfway through the rerun. In 1991, as now, I was gazing at a list of all I’d published, and wondering, “How the hell did I do that?”
I was feeling as I feel now, like whalers Herman Melville described, who didn’t talk anymore. They had said absolutely everything they could ever say.
I told Trout in 2001 about a redheaded boyhood friend of mine, David Craig, now a builder in New Orleans, Louisiana, who won a Bronze Star in our war for knocking out a German tank in Normandy. He and a buddy came upon this steel monster parked all alone in a woods. Its engine wasn’t running. There wasn’t anybody outside. A radio was playing popular music inside.
Dave and his buddy fetched a bazooka. When they got back, the tank was still there. A radio was still playing music inside. They shot the tank with the bazooka. Germans didn’t pop out of the turret. The radio stopped playing. That was all. That was it.
Dave and his buddy skedaddled away from there.
Trout said it sounded to him as though my boyhood friend’s Bronze Star was well deserved. “He almost certainly killed people as well as a radio,” he said, “thus sparing them years of disappointments and tedium in civilian life. He made it possible for them, to quote the English poet A. E. Housman, to ‘die in their glory and never be old.’ ”
Trout paused, secured his upper plate with his left thumb, and then went on: “I could have written a best-seller, if I’d had the patience to create three-dimensional characters. The Bible may be the Greatest Story Ever Told, but the most popular story you can ever tell is about a good-looking couple having a really swell time copulating outside wedlock, and having to quit for one reason or another while doing it is still a novelty.”
I was reminded of Steve Adams, one of my sister Allie’s three sons my first wife Jane and I adopted after Allie’s unlucky husband Jim died in a railroad train that went off an open drawbridge in New Jersey, and then, two days later, Allie died of cancer of the everything.
When Steve came home to Cape Cod for Christmas vacation from his freshman year at Dartmouth, he was close to tears because he had just read, having been forced to do so by a professor, A Farewell to Arms, by Ernest

Hemingway.
Steve, now a middle-aged comedy writer for movies and TV, was so gorgeously wrecked back then that I was moved to reread what it was that had done this to him. A Farewell to Arms turned out to be an attack on the institution of marriage. Hemingway’s hero is wounded in war. He and his nurse fall in love. They honeymoon far away from the battlefields, consuming the best food and wine, without having been married first. She gets pregnant, proving, as if it could be doubted, that he is indeed all man.
She and the baby die, so he doesn’t have to get a regular job and a house and life insurance and all that crap, and he has such beautiful memories.
I said to Steve, “The tears Hemingway has made you want to shed are tears of relief! It looked like the guy was going to have to get married and settle down. But then he didn’t have to. Whew! What a close shave!”
Trout said he could think of only one other book that despised matrimony as much as A Farewell to Arms. “Name it,” I said.
He said it was a book by Henry David Thoreau, called Walden.
“Loved it,” I said.

24
I say in lectures in 1996 that fifty percent or more of American marriages go bust because most of us no longer have extended families. When you marry somebody now, all you get is one person.
I say that when couples fight, it isn’t about money or sex or power. What they’re really saying is, “You’re not enough people!”
Sigmund Freud said he didn’t know what women wanted. I know what women want. They want a whole lot of people to talk to.
I thank Trout for the concept of the man-woman hour as a unit of measurement of marital intimacy. This is an hour during which a husband and wife are close enough to be aware of each other, and for one to say something to the other without yelling, if he or she feels like it. Trout says in his story “Golden Wedding” that they needn’t feel like saying anything in order to credit themselves with a man-woman hour.
“Golden Wedding” is another story Dudley Prince rescued from the trash receptacle before the timequake. It is about a florist who tries to increase his business by convincing people who both work at home, or who spend long hours together running a Ma-and-Pa joint, that they are entitled to celebrate several wedding anniversaries a year.
He calculates that an average couple with separate places of work logs four man-woman hours each weekday, and sixteen of them on weekends. Being sound asleep with each other doesn’t count. This gives him a standard man- woman week of thirty-six man-woman hours.
He multiplies that by fifty-two. This gives him, when rounded off, a standard man-woman year of eighteen hundred man-woman hours. He advertises that any couple that has accumulated this many man-woman hours is entitled to celebrate an anniversary, and to receive flowers and appropriate presents, even if it took them only twenty weeks to do it!
If couples keep piling up man-woman hours like that, as my wives and I have done in both my marriages, they can easily celebrate their Ruby Anniversary in only twenty years, and their Golden in twenty-five!
I do not propose to discuss my love life. I will say that I still can’t get over how women are shaped, and that I will go to my grave wanting to pet their butts and boobs. I will say, too, that lovemaking, if sincere, is one of the best ideas Satan put in the apple she gave to the serpent to give to Eve. The best idea in that apple, though, is making jazz.

25
Allie’s husband Jim Adams really did go off an open drawbridge in a railroad train two days before Allie died in a hospital. Stranger than fiction!
Jim had plunged them deep in debt by manufacturing a toy of his own invention. It was a corked rubber balloon with a blob of permanently malleable clay inside. It was clay with a skin!
The face of a clown was printed on the balloon. You could make it open its mouth wide with your fingers, or make its nose protrude or its eyes sink in. Jim called it Putty Puss. Putty Puss never became popular. Moreover, Putty Puss amassed enormous debts for its manufacture and advertising.
Allie and Jim, Indianapolis people in New Jersey, had four boys and no girls. One of the boys was a mewling infant, and none of these people had asked to be born in the first place.
Boys and girls of our family often come into this world, as did Allie, with natural gifts for drawing and painting and sculpting and so on. Jane’s and my two daughters, Edith and Nanette, are middle-aged professional artists who have shows and sell pictures. So does our son the doctor Mark. So do I. Allie could have done that, too, if she had been willing to work hard and hustle some. But as I have reported elsewhere, she said, “Just because you’re talented, that doesn’t mean you have to do something with it.”
I say in my novel Bluebeard, “Beware of gods bearing gifts.” I think I had Allie in mind when I wrote that, and Allie in mind again when, in Timequake One, I had Monica Pepper spray-paint “FUCK ART!” in orange and purple across the steel front door of the Academy. Allie didn’t know there was such an institution as the Academy, I’m almost sure, but she would have been happy to see those words emblazoned anywhere.
Our father the architect was so full of ecstatic baloney about any work of art Allie made when she was growing up, as though she were the new Michelangelo, that she was shamed. She wasn’t stupid and she wasn’t tasteless. Father, without meaning to do so, rubbed her nose in how limited her gifts were, and so spoiled any modest pleasure that she, not expecting too much, might have found in using them.
Allie may have felt patronized, too, lavishly praised for very little because she was a pretty girl. Only men could become great artists.
When I was ten, and Allie was fifteen, and our big brother Bernie the born scientist was eighteen, I said at supper one night that women weren’t even the best cooks or clothing makers. Men were. And Mother dumped a pitcher of water over my head.
But Mother was as full of baloney about Allie’s prospects for marrying a rich man, and how important it was for Allie to do so, as Father was about the art she did. During the Great Depression, financial sacrifices were made to send Allie to school with Hoosier heiresses at Tudor Hall, School for Girls, or Two-Door Hell, Dump for Dames, four blocks south of Shortridge High School, where she could have received what I received, a free and much richer and more democratic and madly heterosexual education.
The parents of my first wife Jane, Harvey and Riah Cox, did the same thing: sent their only daughter to Tudor Hall, and bought her rich girls’ clothes, and maintained for her sake membership in the Woodstock Golf and Country Club they could ill afford, so she could marry a man whose family had money and power.
When the Great Depression and then World War Two were over, the idea that a man from a rich and powerful Indianapolis family would be allowed to marry a woman whose family didn’t have a pot to piss in, as long as she had the manners and tastes of a rich girl, turned out to be as dumb as trying to sell balloons with blobs of moistened clay inside.
Business is business.

The best Allie could do for a husband was Jim Adams, a beautiful, charming, funny hunk with no money and no profession, who had served in Army Public Relations during the war. The best Jane could do, and it was a time of panic for unmarried women, was a guy who came home a PFC, who had been flunking all his courses at Cornell when he went off to war, and who didn’t have a clue as to what to do next, now that free will had kicked in again.
Get this: Not only did Jane have rich girls’ manners and clothes. She was a Phi Beta Kappa from Swarthmore, and had been the outstanding writer there!
I thought maybe I could be some kind of half-assed scientist, since that had been my education.

26
In the third edition of The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations, the English poet Samuel Taylor Coleridge (1772- 1834) speaks of “that willing suspension of disbelief for the moment, which constitutes poetic faith.” This acceptance of balderdash is essential to the enjoyment of poems, and of novels and short stories, and of dramas, too. Some assertions by writers, however, are simply too preposterous to be believed.
Who, for example, could believe Kilgore Trout when he wrote as follows in My Ten Years on Automatic Pilot: “There is a planet in the Solar System where the people are so stupid they didn’t catch on for a million years that there was another half to their planet. They didn’t figure that out until five hundred years ago! Only five hundred years ago! And yet they are now calling themselves Homo sapiens.
“Dumb? You want to talk dumb? The people in one of the halves were so dumb, they didn’t have an alphabet! They hadn’t invented the wheel yet!”
Give us a break, Mr. Trout.
He appears to be heaping scorn in particular on Native Americans, who have already been adequately penalized, one would think, for their stupidity. According to Noam Chomsky, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where my brother, my father, and my grandfather all earned advanced degrees, but where my maternal uncle Pete Lieber flunked out: “Current estimates suggest that there may have been about 80 million Native Americans in Latin America when Columbus ‘discovered’ the continent—as we say—and about 12 to 15 million more north of the Rio Grande.”
Chomsky continues: “By 1650, about 95 percent of the population of Latin America had been wiped out, and by the time the continental borders of the United States had been established, some 200,000 were left of the indigenous population.”
In my opinion, Trout, far from giving yet another high colonic to our aborigines, is raising the question, perhaps too subtly, of whether great discoveries, such as the existence of another hemisphere, or of accessible atomic energy, really make people any happier than they were before.
I myself say atomic energy has made people unhappier than they were before, and that having to live in a two- hemisphere planet has made our aborigines a lot less happy, without making the wheel-and-alphabet people who “discovered” them any fonder of being alive than they were before.
Then again, I am a monopolar depressive descended from monopolar depressives. That’s how come I write so good.
Are two hemispheres better than one? I know anecdotal evidence isn’t worth a pitcher of warm spit scientifically, but a great-grandfather of mine on my mother’s side switched hemispheres in time to be wounded in the leg as a soldier for the Union in our notoriously uncivil Civil War. His name was Peter Lieber. Peter Lieber bought a brewery in Indianapolis, and it prospered. A brew of his won a Gold Medal at the Paris Exposition of 1889. Its secret ingredient was coffee.
But Peter Lieber gave the brewery to his son Albert, my maternal grandfather, and he went back to his original hemisphere. He decided he liked that one better. And I am told there is a photograph often used in our textbooks that supposedly shows immigrants disembarking here, but actually they are getting on a ship to go back to where they came from.

This hemisphere is no bed of roses. My mother committed suicide in this one, and then my brother-in-law went off an open drawbridge in a railroad train.

27
The first story Trout had to rewrite after the timequake zapped him back to 1991, he told me, was called “Dog’s Breakfast.” It was about a mad scientist named Fleon Sunoco, who was doing research at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland. Dr. Sunoco believed really smart people had little radio receivers in their heads, and were getting their bright ideas from somewhere else.
“The smarties had to be getting outside help,” Trout said to me at Xanadu. While impersonating the mad Sunoco, Trout himself seemed convinced that there was a great big computer somewhere, which, by means of radio, had told Pythagoras about right triangles, and Newton about gravity, and Darwin about evolution, and Pasteur about germs, and Einstein about relativity, and on and on.
“That computer, wherever it is, whatever it is, while pretending to help us, may actually be trying to kill us dummies with too much to think about,” said Kilgore Trout.
Trout said he hadn’t minded writing “Dog’s Breakfast” again, or the three hundred or more stories he redid and threw away before free will kicked in again. “Write or rewrite, it’s all the same to me,” he said. “At the age of four score and four, I am as amazed and entertained as I was when I was only fourteen, and discovered that if I put the tip of a pen on paper, it would write a story of its own accord.
“Wonder why I tell people that my name is Vincent van Gogh?” he asked. And I had better explain that the real Vincent van Gogh was a Dutchman who painted in the south of France, whose pictures are now numbered among the world’s most precious treasures, but who in his own lifetime sold only two of them. “It isn’t only because he, like me, took no pride in his appearance and disgusted women, although that surely has to be factored in,” said Trout.
“The main thing about van Gogh and me,” said Trout, “is that he painted pictures that astonished him with their importance, even though nobody else thought they were worth a damn, and I write stories that astonish me, even though nobody else thinks they’re worth a damn.
“How lucky can you get?”
Trout was the only appreciative audience he needed for what he was and did. That let him accept the conditions of the rerun as unsurprising. It was just more foolishness in the world outside his own, and no more worthy of his respect than wars or economic collapses or plagues, or tidal waves, or TV stars, or what you will.
He was capable of being such a rational hero in the neighborhood of the Academy the instant free will kicked in again, because, in my opinion, Trout, unlike most of the rest of us, had found no significant differences between life as déjà vu and life as original material.
As for how little he was affected by the rerun, as compared with the hell it had been for most of the rest of us, he wrote in My Ten Years on Automatic Pilot: “I didn’t need a timequake to teach me being alive was a crock of shit. I already knew that from my childhood and crucifixes and history books.”
For the record: Dr. Fleon Sunoco at the NIH, who is independently rich, hires grave robbers to bring him the brains of deceased members of Mensa, a nationwide club for persons with high Intelligence Quotients, or IQs, as determined by standardized tests of verbal and nonverbal skills, tests which pit the testees against the Joe and Jane Sixpacks, against the Lumpenproletariat.
His ghouls also bring him brains of people who died in really stupid accidents, crossing busy streets against the

light, starting charcoal fires at cookouts with gasoline, and so on, for comparison. So as not to arouse suspicion, they deliver the fresh brains one at a time in buckets stolen from a nearby Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise. Needless to say, Sunoco’s supervisors have no idea what he’s really doing when he works late night after night.
They do notice how much he likes fried chicken, apparently, ordering it by the bucket, and that he never offers anybody else some. They also wonder how he stays so skinny. During regular working hours, he does what he is paid to do, which is develop a birth control pill that takes all the pleasure out of sex, so teenagers won’t copulate.
At night, though, with nobody around, he slices up high-IQ brains, looking for little radios. He doesn’t think Mensa members had them inserted surgically. He thinks they were born with them, so the receivers have to be made of meat. Sunoco has written in his secret journal: “There is no way an unassisted human brain, which is nothing more than a dog’s breakfast, three and a half pounds of blood-soaked sponge, could have written ‘Stardust,’ let alone Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony.”
One night he finds an unexplained little snot-colored bump, no larger than a mustard seed, in the inner ear of a Mensa member, who as a junior high schooler had won spelling bee after spelling bee. Eureka!
He reexamines the inner ear of a moron who was killed when she was grabbing door handles of fast-moving vehicles while wearing Rollerblades. Neither of her inner ears has a snot-colored bump. Eureka!
Sunoco examines fifty more brains, half from people so stupid you couldn’t believe it, half from people so smart you couldn’t believe it. Only the inner ears of the rocket scientists, so to speak, have bumps. The bumps have to have been the reason the smarties were so good at taking IQ tests. An extra piece of tissue that little, and as nothing but tissue, couldn’t possibly have been much more help than a pimple. It has to be a radio! And radios like that have to be feeding correct answers to questions, no matter how recondite, to Mensas and Phi Beta Kappas, and to quiz show contestants.
This is a Nobel Prize-type discovery! So, even before he has published, Fleon Sunoco goes out and buys himself a suit of tails for Stockholm.

28
Trout said: “Fleon Sunoco jumped to his death into the National Institutes of Health parking lot. He was wearing his new suit of tails, which would never get to Stockholm.
“He realized that his discovery proved that he didn’t deserve credit for making it. He was hoist by his own petard! Anybody who did anything as wonderful as what he had done couldn’t possibly have done it with just a human brain, with nothing but the dog’s breakfast in his braincase. He could have done it only with outside help.”
When free will kicked in after a ten-year hiatus, Trout made the transition from déjà vu to unlimited opportunities almost seamlessly. The rerun brought him back to the point in the space-time continuum when he was again beginning his story about the British soldier whose head was where his ding-dong should have been and whose ding-dong was where his head should have been.
Without warning and silently, the rerun stopped.
This was one heck of a moment for anyone operating a form of self-propelled transportation, or who was a passenger in one, or who stood in the path of one. For ten years, machinery, like people, had been doing whatever it had done the first time through the decade, often with fatal results, to be sure. As Trout wrote in My Ten Years on Automatic Pilot: “Rerun or not, modern transportation is a game of inches.” The second time through, though, the hiccuping Universe, not humanity, was responsible for any and all fatalities. People might look as though they were steering something, but they weren’t really steering. They couldn’t steer.
Quoting Trout again: “The horse knew the way home.” But when the rerun ended, the horse, which might actually have been anything from a motor scooter to a jumbo jet, didn’t know the way home anymore. People were going to have to tell it what to do next, if it wasn’t going to be an utterly amoral plaything of Newton’s Laws of Motion.
Trout, on his cot next door to the Academy, was operating nothing more dangerous or headstrong than a ballpoint pen. When free will kicked in, he simply went on writing. He finished the story. The wings of a narrative, begging to be told, had carried its author over what was for most of us a yawning abyss.
Only after he had completed his own absorbing business, the story, was Trout at liberty to notice what the outside world, or, indeed, the Universe, might be doing now, if anything. And as a man without a culture or a society, he was uniquely free to apply Occam’s Razor, or, if you like, the Law of Parsimony, to virtually any situation, to wit: The simplest explanation of a phenomenon is, nine times out of ten, say, truer than a really fancy one.
Trout’s ruminations about how he had been able to finish a story whose completion had been so long opposed were uncomplicated by conventional paradigms of what life was all about, and what the Universe can or cannot do, and so on. Thus was the old science fiction writer able to go directly to this simple truth: That everybody had been going through what he had been going through for the past ten years, that he hadn’t gone nuts or died and gone to hell, and that the Universe had shrunk a little bit, but had then resumed expansion, making everybody and everything a robot of their own past, and demonstrating, incidentally, that the past was unmalleable and indestructible, to wit:
The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ,

Moves on: nor all your Piety nor a Line, Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line, Nor all your Tears wash out a Word of it.
And then, on what was the afternoon of February 13th, 2001, in New York City, way-the-hell-and-gone up on West 155th Street, and everywhere, free will had all of a sudden kicked in again.

29
I, too, went from déjà vu to unlimited opportunities in a series of actions that were continuous. An outside observer might have said I exercised free will the instant it became available. But here’s the thing: I had dumped a cup of very hot chicken noodle soup into my lap, and had jumped out of my chair, and was with my bare hands sweeping the scalding broth and noodles from the front of my trousers right before the timequake struck. That’s what I had to be doing again at the end of the rerun.
When free will kicked in, I simply kept on trying to get the soup off me before it could seep all the way through to my underwear. Trout said, quite correctly, that my actions had been reflexes, and not sufficiently creative to be considered acts of free will.
“If you’d been thinking,” he said, “you would have unzipped your pants and dropped them around your ankles, since they were already soaked with soup. No amount of frenzied brushing of the surface of your pants was going to stop the soup from seeping all the way through to your underwear.”
Trout was surely among the first people in the whole wide world, and not just way-the-hell-and-gone up on West 155th Street, to realize that free will had kicked in. This was very interesting to him, as it certainly wasn’t to many others. Most other people, after the relentless reprise of their mistakes and bad luck and hollow victories during the past ten years, had, in Trout’s words, “stopped giving a shit what was going on, or what was liable to happen next.” This syndrome would eventually be given a name: Post-Timequake Apathy, or PTA.
Trout now performed an experiment that many of us had tried to perform at the start of the rerun. He said nonsensical things on purpose, and out loud, like, “Boop-boop-a-doop, dingle-dangle, artsy-fartsy, wah, wah,” and so on. We all tried to say things on that order back in the second 1991, hoping to prove we could still say or do whatever we liked, if we tried hard enough. We couldn’t, of course. But when Trout tried to say, “Blue mink bifocals,” or whatever, after the rerun, of course he could.
No problem!
People in Europe and Africa and Asia were in darkness when free will kicked in. Most of them were in bed or sitting down somewhere. Not nearly as many of them fell down in their hemisphere as fell down in ours, where a clear majority was wide awake.
A person walking in either hemisphere was commonly off balance, leaning in the direction he or she was going, and with most of his or her weight unevenly distributed between his or her feet. When free will kicked in, he or she of course fell down, and stayed down, even in the middle of a street with onrushing traffic, because of Post- Timequake Apathy.
You can imagine what the bottoms of staircases and escalators, in the Western Hemisphere in particular, looked like after free will kicked in.
That’s the New World for you!
My sister Allie in real life, which for her lasted only forty-one years, God rest her soul, thought falling down was one of the funniest things people could do. I don’t mean people who fell on account of strokes or heart attacks or

snapped hamstrings or whatever. I am talking about people ten years old or older, of any race and either sex, and in reasonably good physical condition, who, on a day like any other day, all of a sudden fell down.
When Allie was dying for sure, with not long to go, I could still fill her with joy, could give her an epiphany, if you like, by talking about somebody falling down. My story couldn’t be from the movies or hearsay. It had to be about a rude reminder of the power of gravity that I myself had witnessed.
Only one of my stories was about a professional entertainer. It was from back when I was lucky enough to see the death throes of vaudeville on the stage of the Apollo Theater in Indianapolis. A perfectly wonderful man, my kind of saint, as a regular part of his act at one point fell into the orchestra pit, and then climbed back onto the stage wearing the big bass drum.
All my other stories, which Allie never tired of hearing until she was dead as a doornail, involved amateurs.

30
One time when Allie was maybe fifteen and I was ten, she heard somebody fall down our basement stairs: Bloompity, bloomp, bloomp. She thought it was I, so she stood at the top of the stairs laughing her fool head off. This would have been 1932, three years into the Great Depression.
But it wasn’t I. It was a guy from the gas company, who had come to read the meter. He came clumping out of the basement all bunged up, and absolutely furious.
Another time, when Allie was sixteen or older, since she was driving a car with me as a passenger, we saw a woman come out of a stopped streetcar horizontally, headfirst and parallel to the pavement. Her heels had caught somehow.
As I’ve written elsewhere, and said in interviews, Allie and I laughed for years about that woman. She wasn’t seriously hurt. She got back on her feet OK.
One thing that only I saw, but which Allie liked to hear about anyhow, was a guy who offered to teach a beautiful woman not his wife how to do the Tango. It was at the tail end of a cocktail party that had pretty much petered out.
I don’t think the man’s wife was there. I can’t imagine he would have made the offer if his wife had been there. He was not a professional dance instructor. There were maybe ten people in all there, including the host and hostess. This was in the days of phonographs. The host and hostess had made the tactical mistake of putting an acetate recording of Tango music on their phonograph.
So this guy, his eyes flashing, his nostrils flaring, took this beautiful woman in his arms, and he fell down.
Yes, and all the people falling down in Timequake One, and now in this book, are like “FUCK ART!” spray-painted across the steel front door of the Academy. They are homage to my sister Allie. They are Allie’s kind of porno: people deprived of dignified postures by gravity instead of sex.
Here is a verse from a song popular during the Great Depression:
Papa came home late last night. Mama said, “Pop, you’re tight.” When he tried to find the light, He faw down and go boom!
That the impulse to laugh at healthy people who nonetheless fall down is by no means universal, however, was brought to my attention unpleasantly at a performance of Swan Lake by the Royal Ballet in London, England. I was in the audience with my daughter Nanny, who was about sixteen then. She is forty-one now, in the summer of 1996. That must have been twenty-five years ago now!
A ballerina, dancing on her toes, went deedly-deedly-deedly into the wings as she was supposed to do. But then there was a sound backstage as though she had put her foot in a bucket and then gone down an iron stairway with her foot still in the bucket.

I instantly laughed like hell.
I was the only person to do so.
A similar incident happened at a performance of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra when I was a kid. It didn’t involve me, though, and it wasn’t about laughter. There was this piece of music that was getting louder and louder, and was supposed to stop all of a sudden.
There was this woman in the same row with me, maybe ten seats away. She was talking to a friend during the crescendo, and she had to get louder and louder, too. The music stopped. She shrieked, “I FRY MINE IN BUTTER!”

31
My daughter Nanny and I went to Westminster Abbey the day after I became a pariah at the Royal Ballet. She was thunderstruck when she came face to face with the tomb of Sir Isaac Newton. At her age, and in that same place, my big brother Bernie, a born scientist who can’t draw or paint for sour apples, would have shit an even bigger brick.
And well might any educated person excrete a sizable chunk of masonry when contemplating the tremendously truthful ideas this ordinary mortal, seemingly, uttered, with no more to go by, as far as we know, than signals from his dog’s breakfast, from his three and a half pounds of blood-soaked sponge. This one naked ape invented dif ferential calculus! He invented the reflecting telescope! He discovered and explained how a prism breaks a beam of sunlight into its constituent colors! He detected and wrote down previously unknown laws governing motion and gravity and optics!
Give us a break!
“Calling Dr. Fleon Sunoco! Sharpen your microtome. Do we ever have a brain for you!”
My daughter Nanny has a son, Max, who is twelve now, in 1996, halfway through the rerun. He will be seventeen when Kilgore Trout dies. This past April, Max wrote for school a really swell report on Sir Isaac Newton, a superman so ordinary in appearance. It told me something I hadn’t known before: That Newton was advised by those who were his nominal supervisors to take time out from the hard truths of science to brush up on theology.
I like to think they did this not because they were foolish, but to remind him of how comforting and encouraging the make-believe of religion can be for common folk.
To quote from Kilgore Trout’s story “Empire State,” which is about a meteor the size and shape of the Manhattan skyscraper, approaching Earth point-first at a steady fifty-four miles an hour: “Science never cheered up anyone. The truth about the human situation is just too awful.”
And the truth about that situation all over the world will never be worse than it was during the first couple of hours after the rerun stopped. Oh sure, there were millions of pedestrians lying on the ground because the weight on their feet had been unevenly distributed when free will kicked in. But most of them were pretty much OK, except for those who had been near the tops of escalators or stairways. Most were no worse hurt than the woman Allie and I saw come shooting out of a streetcar headfirst.
The real mayhem was wrought, as I said before, by self-propelled forms of transportation, of which there were none, of course, inside the former Museum of the American Indian. Things stayed peaceful in there, even as the crashing of vehicles and the cries of the injured and dying reached the climax of a crescendo outside.
“I fry mine in butter!” indeed.
The bums, or “sacred cattle,” as Trout called them, had been seated or prone or supine when the timequake struck. That was how they were when the rerun ended. How could free will hurt them?
Trout would say of them afterward: “Even before the timequake, they had exhibited symptoms indistinguishable from those of PTA.”

Only Trout jumped to his feet when a berserk fire truck, a hook-and-ladder, smacked the entrance of the Academy with its right front bumper and kept on going. What it did after that had nothing to do with people, and could have nothing to do with people. The sudden reduction of its velocity by its brush with the Academy caused the gaga firepersons aboard to hurtle through the air at the velocity it had reached going downhill from Broadway before it hit. Trout’s best guess, based on how far the firepersons flew, was about fifty miles an hour.
Thus slowed and depopulated, the emergency vehicle made a sharp left turn into a cemetery across the street from the Academy. It started up a steep slope. It stopped short of the crest, and then rolled backward. The collision with the Academy had knocked its gearshift into neutral!
Momentum alone had carried it up the slope. The mighty motor roared. Its throttle was stuck. But the only opposition it could offer to gravity was the inertia of its own mass. It wasn’t connected by the drive shaft to the back wheels anymore!
Listen to this: Gravity dragged the bellowing red monster back down into West 155th Street, and then ass- backward toward the Hudson River.
The rescue vehicle’s blow to the Academy was so severe, albeit glancing, that it caused a crystal chandelier to drop to the floor of the foyer.
The fancy light fixture missed the armed guard Dudley Prince by inches. If he hadn’t been standing upright, his weight equally distributed between his feet when free will kicked in, he would have fallen prone in the direction he was facing, toward the front door. The chandelier would have killed him!
You want to talk about luck? When the timequake struck, Monica Pepper’s paraplegic husband was ringing the doorbell. Dudley Prince was about to go to the steel front door. Before he could take a step in that direction, though, a smoke alarm went off in the picture gallery behind him. He froze. Which way to go?
So when free will kicked in, he was on the horns of the same dilemma. The smoke alarm behind him had saved his life!
When Trout learned of the miraculous escape from death by chandelier, thanks to a smoke alarm, he quoted Katharine Lee Bates, speaking rather than singing:
O beautiful for spacious skies, For amber waves of grain, For purple mountain majesties Above the ftuited plain! America! America!
God shed his grace on thee
And crown thy good with brotherhood From sea to shining sea.
The uniformed ex-convict, thanks to PTA, was a motivationally kaput statue when Kilgore Trout scampered in through the entrance, which was no longer blocked, minutes after the harsh rules of free will had been reinstated. Trout was shouting, “Wake up! For God’s sake, wake up! Free will! Free will!”
Not only was the steel front door lying flat on the floor, bearing the enigmatic message “UCK AR,” so Trout had to lope across it to reach Prince. It was still hinged and locked to the door frame. The door frame itself had let go on impact. It had parted from the surrounding masonry. The door and its hinges and bolts and whoozit were to all practical purposes as good as new, their frame had offered so little resistance to the berserk hook-and-ladder.
The contractor who installed the door and frame had cut corners when it came to securing the frame to the masonry. He had been a crook! As Trout would later say of him, and it might have been said of all corner-cutting contractors: “The wonder was that he could sleep at night!”

32
I say in speeches in 1996, halfway through the rerun to 2001, that I became a student in the Anthropology Department of the University of Chicago after World War Two. I say jokingly that I never should have studied that subject, because I can’t stand primitive people. They’re so scupid! The real reason my interest in the study of man as an animal flagged was that my wife Jane Marie Cox Vonnegut, who would die as Jane Marie Cox Yarmolinsky, gave birth to a baby named Mark. We needed bucks.
Jane herself, a Swarthmore Phi Beta Kappa, had won a full scholarship in the university’s Russian Department. When she got pregnant with Mark, she resigned the scholarship. We found the head of the Russian Department in the library, I remember, and my wife told this melancholy refugee from Stalinism that she had to quit because she had become infected with progeny.
Even without a computer, I can never forget what he said to Jane: “My dear Mrs. Vonnegut, pregnancy is the beginning, not the end, of life.”
The point I want to make, though, is that one course I took required me to read and then be ready to discuss A Study of History by the English historian Arnold Toynbee, who is up in Heaven now. He wrote about challenges and responses, saying that various civilizations persisted or failed depending on whether or not the challenges they faced were just too much for them. He gave examples.
The same might be said for individuals who would like to behave heroically, and most strikingly in the case of Kilgore Trout on the afternoon and evening of February 13th, 2001, after free will kicked in. If he had been in the area of Times Square, or near the entrance or exit of a major bridge or tunnel, or at an airport, where pilots, as they had learned to do during the rerun, had expected their planes to take off or land safely of their own accord, the challenge would have been too much not only for Trout but for anyone else.
What Trout beheld when he came out of the shelter in response to the crash next door was a horrifying scene all right, but the cast was small. The dead and dying were widely scattered, rather than heaped or enclosed in a burning or crumpled airplane or bus. They were still individuals. Alive or dead, they still had personalities, with stories to read in their faces and clothes.
Vehicular traffic on that stretch of West 155th Street, way-the-hell-and-gone uptown and leading nowhere, was at any time of day virtually nonexistent. This made the roaring hook-and-ladder a solo entertainer, as Trout watched gravity drag it ass-backward in the direction of the Hudson River. He was so free to think about the luckless fire truck in detail, despite the racket coming from busier thoroughfares, that he concluded calmly, as he would tell me at Xanadu, that one of three explanations for its helplessness had to be the right one: Either its gearshift was in reverse or neutral, or the drive shaft had snapped, or the clutch was shot.
He did not panic. His experiences as a forward observer for the artillery had taught him that panic only made things worse. He would say at Xanadu: “In real life, as in Grand Opera, arias only make hopeless situations worse.
True enough, he didn’t panic. At the same time, though, he had yet to realize that he alone was ambulatory and wide awake. He had figured out the bare bones of what the Universe itself had done, contracted and then expanded. That was the easy part. What was actually happening, except for its actuality, might easily have been the ink-on- paper consequences of a premise for a story he himself had written and torn to pieces, and flushed down a toilet in a bus terminal or whatever, years ago.
Unlike Dudley Prince, Trout hadn’t even earned a High School Equivalency Certificate, but he bore at least one surprising resemblance to my big brother Bernie, who has a Ph.D. in physical chemistry from MIT. Bernie and Trout had both, since their earliest adolescence, played games in their heads that began with this question: “If such-

and-such were the case in our surroundings, what then, what then?”
What Trout had failed to extrapolate from the premise of the timequake and rerun, in the relative peace of the far end of West 155th Street, was that everybody for miles around was immobilized, if not by death or serious injury, then by PTA. He wasted precious minutes waiting for the arrival of healthy young ambulance crews and policepersons and more firepersons, and disaster specialists from the Red Cross and the Federal Emergency Management Agency, who would take care of things.
Please remember, for God’s sake: He was eighty-fucking-four years old! Since he shaved every day, he was often mistaken for a bag lady rather than a bag gentleman, even without his baby-blanket babushka, and so incapable of inspiring any respect whatsoever. As for his sandals: At least they were tough. They were made of the same material as the brake shoes on the Apollo 11 spacecraft, which had delivered Neil Armstrong to the Moon, where he was the first human being ever to walk on it, in 1969.
The sandals were government surplus from the Vietnam War, the only war we ever lost, and during which Trout’s only child Leon had been a deserter. American soldiers on patrol in that conflict wore the sandals over their lightweight jungle boots. They did that because the enemy used to stick spikes pointed upward, and dipped in shit so as to cause serious infections, in paths leading through the jungle.
Trout, so reluctant to play Russian roulette with free will again at his age, and especially with the lives of others at stake, finally realized that, for better or worse, he had better get his ass in gear. But what could he do?

33
My father often misquoted Shakespeare, but I never saw him read a book.
Yes, and I am here to suggest that the greatest writer in the English language so far was Lancelot Andrewes (1555- 1626), and not the Bard of Avon (1564-1616). Poetry was certainly in the air back then. Try this:
The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want.
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters.
He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name’s sake.
Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me.
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever.
Lancelot Andrewes was the chief translator and paraphraser among the scholars who gave us the King James Bible.
Did Kilgore Trout ever write poems? So far as I know, he wrote only one. He did it on the penultimate day of his life. He was fully aware that the Grim Reaper was coming, and coming soon. It is helpful to know that there is a tupelo tree between the mansion and the carriage house at Xanadu.
Wrote Trout:
When the tupelo
Goes poop-a-lo,
I’ll come back to youp-a-lo.

34
My first wife Jane and my sister Allie had mothers who went nuts from time to time. Jane and Allie were graduates of Tudor Hall and had once been two of the prettiest, merriest girls at the Woodstock Golf and Country Club. All male writers, incidentally, no matter how broke or otherwise objectionable, have pretty wives. Somebody should look into this.
Jane and Allie missed the timequake, thank goodness. My guess is that Jane would have found some goodness in the rerun. Allie would not have. Jane was life-loving and optimistic, a scrapper against carcinoma to the very end. Allie’s last words expressed relief, and nothing more. They were, as I’ve recorded elsewhere, “No pain, no pain.” I didn’t hear her say it, and neither did our big brother Bernie. A male hospital attendant, with a foreign accent, relayed those words to us via telephone.
I don’t know what Jane’s last words may have been. I’ve asked. She was Adam Yarmolinsky’s wife by then, not mine. Jane evidently slipped away without speaking, not realizing that she wouldn’t be coming up for air again. At her funeral, in an Episcopal church in Washington, D.C., Adam said to those gathered that her favorite exclamation was, “I can’t wait!”
What Jane anticipated with such joy again and again was some event involving one or more of our six children, now all adults with children of their own: a psychiatric nurse, a comedy writer, a pediatrician, a painter, an airline pilot, and a printmaker.
I did not speak at her Episcopal obsequy. I wasn’t up to it. Everything I had to say was for her ears alone, and she was gone. The last conversation we had, we two old friends from Indianapolis, was two weeks before she died. It was on the telephone. She was in Washington, D.C., where the Yarmolinskys had their home. I was in Manhattan, and married, as I still am, to the photographer and writer Jill Krementz.
I don’t know which of us initiated the call, whose nickel it was. It could have been either one of us. Whoever it was, it turned out that the point of the call was to say good-bye.
Our son the doctor Mark would say after she died that he himself would never have submitted to all the medical procedures she acquiesced to in order to stay alive as long as she could, to go on saying, her eyes shining, “I can’t wait!”
Our last conversation was intimate. Jane asked me, as though I knew, what would determine the exact moment of her death. She may have felt like a character in a book by me. In a sense she was. During our twenty-two years of marriage, I had decided where we were going next, to Chicago, to Schenectady, to Cape Cod. It was my work that determined what we did next. She never had a job. Raising six kids was enough for her.
I told her on the telephone that a sunburned, raffish, bored but not unhappy ten-year-old boy, whom we did not know, would be standing on the gravel slope of the boat-launching ramp at the foot of Scudder’s Lane. He would gaze out at nothing in particular, birds, boats, or whatever, in the harbor of Barnstable, Cape Cod.
At the head of Scudder’s Lane, on Route 6A, one-tenth of a mile from the boat-launching ramp, is the big old house where we cared for our son and two daughters and three sons of my sister’s until they were grownups. Our daughter Edith and her builder husband, John Squibb, and their small sons, Will and Buck, live there now.
I told Jane that this boy, with nothing better to do, would pick up a stone, as boys will. He would arc it over the harbor. When the stone hit the water, she would die.

Jane could believe with all her heart anything that made being alive seem full of white magic. That was her strength. She was raised a Quaker, but stopped going to meetings of Friends after her four happy years at Swarthmore. She became an Episcopalian after marrying Adam, who remained a Jew. She died believing in the Trinity and Heaven and Hell and all the rest of it. I’m so glad. Why? Because I loved her.

35
Tellers of stories with ink on paper, not that they matter anymore, have been either swoopers or bashers. Swoopers write a story quickly, higgledy-piggledy, crinkum-crankum, any which way. Then they go over it again painstakingly, fixing everything that is just plain awful or doesn’t work. Bashers go one sentence at a time, getting it exactly right before they go on to the next one. When they’re done they’re done.
I am a basher. Most men are bashers, and most women are swoopers. Again: Somebody should look into this. It may be that writers of either sex are born to be swoopers or bashers. I visited Rockefeller University recently, and they are seeking and finding more and more genes that tend to make us behave this way or that way, just as a rerun after a timequake would do. Even before that visit, it had appeared to me that Jane’s and my children and Allie’s and Jim’s children, while not alike as grownups, had each become the sort of grownups they practically had to be.
All six are OK.
Then again, all six have had countless opportunities to be OK. If you can believe what you read in the papers, or what you hear and see on TV and the Information Superhighway, most people don’t.
Writers who are swoopers, it seems to me, find it wonderful that people are funny or tragic or whatever, worth reporting, without wondering why or how people are alive in the first place.
Bashers, while ostensibly making sentence after sentence as efficient as possible, may actually be breaking down seeming doors and fences, cutting their ways through seeming barbed-wire entanglements, under fire and in an atmosphere of mustard gas, in search of answers to these eternal questions: “What in heck should we be doing? What in heck is really going on?”
If bashers are unwilling to settle for the basher Voltaire’s “Il faut cultiver notre jardin, ” that leaves the politics of human rights, which I am prepared to discuss. I begin with a couple of true stories from the end of Trout’s and my war in Europe.
Here’s the thing: For a few days after Germany surrendered, on May 7th, 1945, having been directly or indirectly responsible for the deaths of maybe forty million people, there was a pocket of anarchy south of Dresden, near the Czech border, which had yet to be occupied and policed by troops of the Soviet Union. I was in it, and have described it some in my novel Bluebeard. Thousands of prisoners of war like myself had been turned loose there, along with death camp survivors with tattooed arms, and lunatics and convicted felons and Gypsies, and who knows what else.
Get this: There were also German troops there, still armed but humbled, and looking for anybody but the Soviet Union to surrender to. My particular war buddy Bernard V. O‘Hare and I talked to some of them. O’Hare, having become a lawyer for both the prosecution and the defense in later life, is up in Heaven now. Back then, though, we could both hear the Germans saying that America would now have to do what they had been doing, which was to fight the godless Communists.
We replied that we didn’t think so. We expected the USSR to try to become more like the USA, with freedom of speech and religion, and fair trials and honestly elected officials, and so on. We, in turn, would try to do what they claimed to be doing, which was to distribute goods and services and opportunities more fairly: “From each according to his abilities, to each according to his needs.” That sort of thing.
Occam’s Razor.

And then O’Hare and I, not much more than kids actually, went into an undefended barn there in the springtime countryside. We wanted something to eat, anything to eat. But we found a wounded and obviously dying captain of the notoriously heartless Nazi Schutzstaffel, the SS, in a haymow instead. He might easily, until very recently, have been in charge of tormenting and planning the extinction of some of the death camp survivors not far away.
Like all members of the SS, and like all death camp survivors as well, this captain presumably had a serial number tattooed on his arm. Want to talk about postwar irony? There was a lot of that.
He asked O’Hare and me to go away. He would soon be dead, and said he looked forward to being such. As we prepared to depart, not feeling much about him one way or the other, he cleared his throat, signaling that he had something more to say after all. This was the last-words business again. If he had any, who but us could hear them?
“I have just wasted the past ten years of my life,” he said. You want to talk about a timequake?

36
My wife thinks I think I’m such hot stuff. She’s wrong. I don’t think I’m such hot stuff.
My hero George Bernard Shaw, socialist, and shrewd and funny playwright, said in his eighties that if he was considered smart, he sure pitied people who were considered dumb. He said that, having lived as long as he had, he was at last sufficiently wise to serve as a reasonably competent office boy.
That’s how I feel.
When the City of London wanted to give Shaw its Order of Merit, he thanked them for it, but said he had already given it to himself.
I would have accepted it. I would have recognized the opportunity for a world-class joke, but would never allow myself to be funny at the cost of making somebody else feel like something the cat drug in.
Let that be my epitaph.
In the waning summer of 1996, I ask myself if there were ideas I once held that I should now repudiate. I consider the example set by my father’s only brother, Uncle Alex, the childless, Harvard-educated Indianapolis insurance salesman. He had me reading high-level socialist writers like Shaw and Norman Thomas and Eugene Debs and John Dos Passos when I was a teenager, along with making model airplanes and jerking off. After World War Two, Uncle Alex became as politically conservative as the Archangel Gabriel.
But I still like what O’Hare and I said to German soldiers right after we were liberated: That America was going to become more socialist, was going to try harder to give everybody work to do, and to ensure that our children, at least, weren’t hungry or cold or illiterate or scared to death.
Lotsa luck!
I still quote Eugene Debs (1855-1926), late of Terre Haute, Indiana, five times the Socialist Party’s candidate for President, in every speech:
“While there is a lower class I am in it, while there is a criminal element I am of it; while there is a soul in prison, I am not free.”
In recent years, I’ve found it prudent to say before quoting Debs that he is to be taken seriously. Otherwise many in the audience will start to laugh. They are being nice, not mean, knowing I like to be funny. But it is also a sign of these times that such a moving echo of the Sermon on the Mount can be perceived as outdated, wholly discredited horsecrap.
Which it is not.

37
Kilgore Trout’s rugged jungle sandals crunched on crystal fragments from the fallen chandelier as he loped across the face of the fallen steel front door and frame, which said “UCK AR.” Since there were crystal shards atop the door and frame instead of underneath them, a forensic scientist would have had to testify in a lawsuit, if one had ever been filed against the crooked contractor, that, the crook’s handiwork fell first. The chandelier must have dangled for a second or so before letting gravity do to it what gravity apparently would have liked to do to simply everything.
The smoke alarm in the picture gallery was still ringing, “presumably,” Trout would later say, “continuing to do so of its own free will.” He was joking, making fun, as was his wont, of the idea that there had ever been free will for anyone or anything, rerun or not.
The Academy doorbell had clammed up the moment Zoltan Pepper was hit by the fire truck. Trout’s words again: “Quoth the doorbell with its silence, ‘No comment at this time.’ ”
Trout himself, as I’ve said, was nevertheless espousing free will when he entered the Academy, and was invoking the Judeo-Christian deity as well: “Wake up! For God’s sake, wake up, wake up! Free will! Free will!”
He would say at Xanadu that even if he had been a hero that afternoon and night, his entering the Academy, “pretending,” in his words, “to be Paul Revere in the space-time continuum,” had been “an act of sheer cowardice.”
He was seeking shelter from the growing din on Broadway, half a block away, and from the sounds of really serious explosions from other parts of the city. A mile and a half to the south, near Grant’s Tomb, a massive Department of Sanitation truck, for want of sincere steering, plowed through the lobby of a condominium and into the apartment of the building superintendent. It knocked over his gas range. The ruptured pipe of that major appliance filled the stairwell and elevator shaft of the six-story structure with methane laced with skunk smell. Most of the tenants were on Social Security.
And then KA-BOOM!
“An accident waiting to happen,” as Kilgore Trout would say at Xanadu.
The old science fiction writer wanted to galvanize the armed and uniformed Dudley Prince into action, he later confessed, so that he himself wouldn’t have to do anything more. “Free will! Free will! Fire! Fire!” he shouted at Prince.
Prince did not move a muscle. He batted his eyes, but those were reflexes, and not free will, like me and the chicken noodle soup. One thing Prince was thinking, by his own account, was that if he moved a muscle, he might find himself in the New York State Maximum Security Adult Correctional Facility at Athena back in 1991 again.
Understandable!
So Trout bypassed Prince for the moment, confessedly still looking out for numero uno. A smoke alarm was raising hell. if the building was really on fire, and the fire could not be brought under control, then Trout was going to have to find someplace else where a senior citizen could hunker down until whatever was going on outside died down some.

He found a lit cigar resting on a saucer in the picture gallery. The cigar, although illegal everywhere in New York County, was not yet, and probably never would be, a danger to anyone but itself. Its midpoint was centered in the saucer, so it wasn’t going anywhere else as it oxidized. But the smoke alarm was yelling about the end of civilization as we had known it.
Trout, in My Ten Years on Automatic Pilot, would synthesize what he should have said to the smoke alarm that afternoon: “Nonsense! Get a grip on yourself, you brainless nervous breakdown.”
Here’s the spooky part: There wasn’t anybody but Trout in the gallery!
Could it be that the American Academy of Arts and Letters was haunted by poltergeists?

38
I got a good letter today, Friday, August 23rd, 1996, from a young stranger named Jeff Mihalich, one would guess of Serb or Croat descent, who is majoring in physics at the University of Illinois at Urbana. Jeff says he enjoyed his physics course in high school, and got top grades, but “ever since I have had physics at the university I have had much trouble with it. This was a huge blow to me because I was used to doing well in school. I thought there was nothing I couldn’t do if I just wanted it bad enough.”
My reply will go like this: “You might want to read the picaresque novel The Adventures of Augie March by Saul Bellow. The epiphany at the end, as I recall, is that we shouldn’t be seeking harrowing challenges, but rather tasks we find natural and interesting, tasks we were apparently born to perform.
“As for the charms of physics: Two of the most entertaining subjects taught in high school or college are mechanics and optics. Beyond these playful disciplines, however, lie mind games as dependent on native talent as playing the French horn or chess.
“Of native talent itself I say in speeches: ‘If you go to a big city, and a university is a big city, you are bound to run into Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Stay home, stay home.’ ”
To put it another way: No matter what a young person thinks he or she is really hot stuff at doing, he or she is sooner or later going to run into somebody in the same field who will cut him or her a new asshole, so to speak.
A boyhood friend of mine, William H. C. “Skip” Failey, who died four months ago and is up in Heaven now, had good reason when a high school sophomore to think of himself as unbeatable at Ping-Pong. I am no slouch at Ping- Pong myself, but I wouldn’t play against Skip. He put so much spin on his serve that no matter how I tried to return it, I already knew it would go up my nose or out the window or back to the factory, anywhere but on the table.
When Skip was a junior, though, he played a classmate of ours, Roger Downs. Skip said afterward, “Roger cut me a new asshole.”
Thirty-five years after that, I was lecturing at a university in Colorado, and who should be in the audience but Roger Downs! Roger had become a businessperson out that way, and a respected competitor on the Senior Men’s Tennis Circuit. So I congratulated him on having given Skip a table tennis lesson so long ago.
Roger was eager to hear anything Skip might have said after that showdown. I said, “Skip said you cut him a new asshole.”
Roger was enormously satisfied, as well he might have been.
I did not ask, but the surgical metaphor could not have been unfamiliar to him. Furthermore, life being the Darwinian experiment, or “crock of shit,” as Trout liked to call it, Roger himself had surely departed more than one tennis tournament having, like Skip, undergone a colostomy to his self-regard.
More news of this day in August, halfway through the rerun, as yet another autumn draws near: My big brother Bernie, the born scientist who may know more about the electrification of thunderstorms than anyone, has an invariably fatal cancer, too far advanced to be daunted by the Three Horsemen of the Oncologic Apocalypse, Surgery, Chemotherapy, and Radiation.

Bernie still feels fine.
It is much too early to talk about, but when he dies, God forbid, I don’t think his ashes should be put in Crown Hill Cemetery with James Whitcomb Riley and John Dillinger, who belonged only to Indiana. Bernie belongs to the World.
Bernie’s ashes should be scattered over the dome of a towering thunderhead.

39
So there was Roger Downs of Indianapolis in Colorado. Here am I, of Indianapolis, on the South Fork of Long Island. The ashes of my Indianapolis wife Jane Marie Cox are mixed with the roots of a flowering cherry tree, unmarked, in Barnstable Village, Massachusetts. The branches of that tree can be seen from the ell that Ted Adler rebuilt from scratch, after which he asked, “How the hell did I do that?”
The Best Man at Jane’s and my wedding in Indianapolis, Benjamin Hitz of Indianapolis, is a widower now in Santa Barbara, California. Ben dated an Indianapolis cousin of mine several times this spring. She is a widow on the seacoast of Maryland, and my sister died in New Jersey, and my brother, although he doesn’t feel like it yet, is dying in Albany, New York.
My boyhood pal David Craig, who made a radio in a German tank stop playing popular music during World War Two, is a builder in New Orleans. My cousin Emmy, whose dad told me I was a man at last when I came home from war, and who was my lab partner in physics class at Shortridge High School, lives only about thirty miles east of Dave in Louisiana.
Diaspora!
Why did so many of us bug out of a city built by our ancestors, where our family names were respected, whose streets and speech were so familiar, and where, as I said at Butler University last June, there was indeed the best and worst of Western Civilization?
Adventure!
It may be, too, that we wanted to escape the powerful pull, not of gravity, which is everywhere, but of Crown Hill Cemetery.
Crown Hill got my sister Allie. It didn’t get Jane. It won’t get my big brother Bernie. It won’t get me.
I lectured in 1990 at a university in southern Ohio. They put me up in a motel nearby. When I returned to the motel after my speech, and was having my customary scotch and soda so I would sleep like a baby, which is the way I like to sleep, the bar was congenially populated by obviously local old people who seemed to really like each other. They had a lot to laugh about. They were all comedians.
I asked the bartender who they were. He said they were the fiftieth reunion of the Class of 1940 of Zanesville High School. It sure looked nice. It sure looked right. I was in the Class of 1940 at Shortridge High School, and was then skipping my own reunion.
Those people might have been characters out of Our Town by Thornton Wilder, as sweet a play as can ever be.
They and I were so old that we could remember when it didn’t matter all that much economically whether you did or didn’t go to college. You could still amount to something. And I told my father back then that maybe I didn’t want to become a chemist like my big brother Bernie. I could save him a ton of money if I went to work for a newspaper

instead.
Understand: I could go to college only if I took the same sorts of courses my brother had. Father and Bernie were agreed on that. Any other sort of higher education was what they both called ornamental. They laughed at Uncle Alex the insurance salesman because his education at Harvard had been so ornamental.
Father said I had better talk to his close friend Fred Bates Johnson, a lawyer who as a young man had been a reporter for the now defunct Democratic daily The Indianapolis Times.
I knew Mr. Johnson pretty well. Father and I used to go hunting for rabbits and birds with him down in Brown County, before Allie cried so much we had to give it up. He asked me there in his office, leaning back in his swivel chair, his eyes slits, how I planned to begin my career as a journalist.
“Well, sir,” I said, “I thought maybe I could get a job on The Culver Citizen and work there for three or four years. I know the area pretty well.” Culver was on Lake Maxincuckee in northern Indiana. We used to have a summer cottage on that lake.
“And then?” he said.
“With that much experience,” I said, “I should be able to get a job with a much bigger paper, maybe in Richmond or Kokomo.”
“And then?” he said.
“After maybe five years on a paper like that,” I said, “I think I’d be ready to take a shot at Indianapolis.”
“You’ll have to excuse me,” he said, “but I have to make a phone call.”
“Of course,” I said.
He swiveled around so his back was to me when he made the call. He spoke softly, but I wasn’t trying to overhear. I figured it was none of my business.
He hung up the phone and swiveled around to face me again. “Congratulations!” he said. “You have a job on The Indianapolis Times.”

40
I went to college in faraway Ithaca, New York, instead of going to work for The Indianapolis Times. Ever since, I, like Blanche DuBois in A Streetcar Named Desire, have always depended on the kindness of strangers.
I think now, with the clambake at Xanadu only five years away, about a man I might have been, spending his adult life among those he went to high school with, loving and hating, as had his parents and grandparents, a town that was his own.
He’s gone!
Full fathom five he lies;
Of his bones are coral made:
Those are pearls that were his eyes: Nothing of him that doth fade,
But doth suffer a sea-change
Into something rich and strange.
He would have known several jokes I know, like the one Fred Bates Johnson told one time, when he and Father and I, just a kid, and some others, were hunting down in Brown County. According to Fred, a bunch of guys like us went hunting for deer and moose up in Canada. Somebody had to do the cooking, or they would all starve to death.
They drew straws to see who would cook while the others hunted from dawn to dusk. To make the joke more immediate, Fred said it was Father who got the short straw. Father could cook. Mother couldn’t. She was proud she couldn’t cook, and wouldn’t wash dishes and so on. I liked to go over to other kids’ houses, where their mothers did those things.
The hunters agreed that anybody who complained about Father’s cooking became the cook. So Father prepared worse and worse meals, while the others were having one hell of a good time in the forest. No matter how awful a supper was, though, the hunters pronounced it lip-smacking delicious, clapping Father on the back and so on.
After they marched off one morning, Father found a pile of fresh moose poop outside. He fried it in motor oil. That night he served it as steaming patties.
The first guy to taste one spit it out. He couldn’t help himself! He spluttered, “Jesus Christ! That tastes like moose poop fried in motor oil!”
But then he added, “But good, but good!”
I think Mother was raised to be so useless because her father Albert Lieber, the brewer and speculator, believed that America was going to have an aristocracy based on the European model. Proofs of membership in such a caste over there, and so it would be over here, too, he must have reasoned, were wives and daughters who were ornamental.

41
I don’t think I missed the boat when I failed to write a novel about Albert Lieber, and how he was largely responsible for my mother’s suicide on Mother’s Day Eve, 1944. German-Americans in Indianapolis lack universality. They have never been sympathetically, or even villainously, stereotyped in movies or books or plays. I would have had to explain them from scratch.
Lotsa luck!
The great critic H. L. Mencken, himself a German-American, but living all his life in Baltimore, Maryland, confessed that he had difficulty in concentrating on the novels of Willa Cather. Try as he might, he couldn’t really care a whole lot about Czech immigrants in Nebraska.
Same problem.
I will say for the record that my grandfather Albert Lieber’s first wife, Alice, née Barus, namesake of my sister Allie, died giving birth to her third child, who was Uncle Rudy. Mother was her first. The middle child was Uncle Pete, who flunked out of MIT, but who nonetheless sired a nuclear scientist, my cousin Albert in Del Mar, California. Cousin Albert reports that he has just gone blind.
It isn’t radiation that has made cousin Albert blind. It is something else, which could have happened to anybody, in or out of science. Cousin Albert himself has sired a non-nuclear-type scientist, a computer whiz.
As Kilgore Trout used to exclaim from time to time, “Life goes on!”
The point I want to make is that Mother’s father, the brewer, Republican big shot, and neo-aristocratic bon vivant, married a violinist after his first wife died. She turned out to be clinically bughouse. Face it! Some women are! She hated his kids with a passion. She was jealous of his love for them. She wanted to be the whole show. Some women do!
This female bat out of hell, who could play a fiddle like nobody’s business, abused Mother and Uncle Pete and Uncle Rudy so ferociously, both physically and mentally, during their formative years, before Grandfather Lieber divorced her, that they never got over it.
If there had been a significant body of potential book-buyers who might care about rich German-Americans in Indianapolis, it would have been a piece of cake for me to bang out a roman-fleuve demonstrating that my grandfather in fact murdered my mother, albeit very slowly, by double-crossing her so long ago.
“Ting-a-ling, you son of a bitch!” Working title: Gone With the Wind.
When Mother married my father, a young architect in moderate circumstances, politicians and saloonkeepers and the cream of Indianapolis German-American society gave them a treasure trove of crystal and linens and china and silver, and even some gold.
Scheherazade!
Who could doubt then that even Indiana had its own hereditary aristocracy, with useless possessions to rival those

of horses’ asses in the other hemisphere?
It all seemed like a lot of junk to my brother and my sister and our father and me during the Great Depression. It is now as widely dispersed as the Class of 1940 of Shortridge High School.
Auf Wiedersehen.

42
I always had trouble ending short stories in ways that would satisfy a general public. In real life, as during a rerun following a timequake, people don’t change, don’t learn anything from their mistakes, and don’t apologize. In a short story they have to do at least two out of three of those things, or you might as well throw it away in the lidless wire trash receptacle chained and padlocked to the fire hydrant in front of the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
OK, I could handle that. But after I had a character change and/or learn something and/or apologize, that left the cast standing around with their thumbs up their asses. That is no way to tell a reader the show is over.
In my salad days, when I was green in judgment, and never having asked to be born in the first place, I sought the advice of my then literary agent as to how to end stories without killing all the characters. He had been fiction editor of an important magazine, and a story consultant for a Hollywood studio as well.
He said, “Nothing could be simpler, dear boy: The hero mounts his horse and rides off into the sunset.” Many years later, he would kill himself on purpose with a twelve-gauge shotgun.
Another friend and client of his said he couldn’t possibly have committed suicide, it was so out of character.
I replied, “Even with military training, there is no way a man can accidentally blow his head off with a shotgun.”
Many years earlier, so long ago that I was a student at the University of Chicago, I had a conversation with my thesis advisor about the arts in general. At that time, I had no idea that I personally would go into any sort of art.
He said, “You know what artists are?”
I didn’t.
“Artists,” he said, “are people who say, ‘I can’t fix my country or my state or my city, or even my marriage. But by golly, I can make this square of canvas, or this eight-and-a-half-by-eleven piece of paper, or this lump of clay, or these twelve bars of music, exactly what they ought to be!’ ”
About five years after that, he did what Hitler’s Minister of Propaganda and his wife and their kids did at the end of World War Two. He swallowed potassium cyanide.
I wrote a letter to his widow, saying how much his teachings had meant to me. I did not get an answer. It could be that she was overwhelmed with grief. Then again, she may have been sore as hell at him for taking the easy way out.
This very summer, I asked the novelist William Styron in a Chinese restaurant how many people on the whole planet had what we had, which was lives worth living. Between the two of us, we came up with seventeen percent.
The next day I took a walk in midtown Manhattan with a longtime friend, a physician who treats every sort of addict at Bellevue Hospital. Many of his patients are homeless and HIV-positive as well. I told him about Styron’s and my figure of seventeen percent. He said it sounded about right to him.
As I have written elsewhere, this man is a saint. I define a saint as a person who behaves decently in an indecent society.

I asked him why half his patients at Bellevue didn’t commit suicide. He said the same question had occurred to him. He sometimes asked them, as though it were an unremarkable part of a diagnostic routine, if they had thoughts of self-destruction. He said that they were almost without exception surprised and insulted by the question. An idea that sick had never entered their heads!
It was about then that we passed an ex-patient of his who was toting a plastic bag filled with aluminum cans he had gathered. He was one of Kilgore Trout’s “sacred cattle,” somehow wonderful despite his economic uselessness.
“Hi, Doc,” he said.

43
Question: What is the white stuff in bird poop? Answer: That is bird poop, too.
Art or not ?
So much for science, and how helpful it can be in these times of environmental calamities. Chernobyl is still hotter than a Hiroshima baby carriage. Our underarm deodorants have eaten holes in the ozone layer.
And just get a load of this: My big brother Bernie, who can’t draw for sour apples, and who at his most objectionable used to say he didn’t like paintings because they didn’t do anything, just hung there year after year, has this summer become an artist!
I shit you not! This Ph.D. physical chemist from MIT is now the poor man’s Jackson Pollock! He squoozles glurp of various colors and consistencies between two flat sheets of impermeable materials, such as windowpanes or bathroom tiles. He pulls them apart, et voilà! This has nothing to do with his cancer. He didn’t know he had it yet, and the malignancy was in his lungs and not his brain in any case. He was just farting around one day, a semi-retired old geezer without a wife to ask him what in the name of God he thought he was doing, et voilà! Better late than never, that’s all I can say.
So he sent me some black-and-white Xeroxes of his squiggly miniatures, mostly dendritic forms, maybe trees or shrubs, maybe mushrooms or umbrellas full of holes, but really quite interesting. Like my ballroom dancing, they were acceptable. He has since sent me multicolored originals, which I like a lot.
The message he sent me along with the Xeroxes, though, wasn’t about unexpected happiness. It was an unreconstructed technocrat’s challenge to the artsy-fartsy, of which I was a prime exemplar. “Is this art or not?” he asked. He couldn’t have put that question so jeeringly fifty years ago, of course, before the founding of the first wholly American school of painting, Abstract Expressionism, and the deification in particular of Jack the Dripper, Jackson Pollock, who also couldn’t draw for sour apples.
Bernie said, too, that a very interesting scientific phenomenon was involved, having to do, he left me to guess, with how different glurps behave when squoozled this way and that, with nowhere to go but up or down or sideways. If the artsy-fartsy world had no use for his pictures, he seemed to imply, his pictures could still point the way to better lubricants or suntan lotions, or who knows what? The all-new Preparation H!
He would not sign his pictures, he said, or admit publicly that he had made them, or describe how they were made. He plainly expected puffed-up critics to sweat bullets and excrete sizable chunks of masonry when trying to answer his cunningly innocent question: “Art or not?”
 
I was pleased to reply with an epistle which was frankly vengeful, since he and Father had screwed me out of a liberal arts college education: “Dear Brother: This is almost like telling you about the birds and the bees,” I began. “There are many good people who are beneficially stimulated by some, but not all, manmade arrangements of colors and shapes on flat surfaces, essentially nonsense.
“You yourself are gratified by some music, arrangements of noises, and again essentially nonsense. If I were to kick a bucket down the cellar stairs, and then say to you that the racket I had made was philosophically on a par with The Magic Flute, this would not be the beginning of a long and upsetting debate. An utterly satisfactory and complete response on your part would be, ‘I like what Mozart did, and I hate what the bucket did.’
“Contemplating a purported work of art is a social activity. Either you have a rewarding time, or you don’t. You don’t have to say why afterward. You don’t have to say anything.
“You are a justly revered experimentalist, dear Brother. If you really want to know whether your pictures are, as you say, ‘art or not,’ you must display them in a public place somewhere, and see if strangers like to look at them. That is the way the game is played. Let me know what happens.”
I went on: “People capable of liking some paintings or prints or whatever can rarely do so without knowing something about the artist. Again, the situation is social rather than scientific. Any work of art is half of a conversation between two human beings, and it helps a lot to know who is talking at you. Does he or she have a reputation for seriousness, for religiosity, for suffering, for concupiscence, for rebellion, for sincerity, for jokes?
“There are virtually no respected paintings made by persons about whom we know zilch. We can even surmise quite a bit about the lives of whoever did the paintings in the caverns underneath Lascaux, France.
“I dare to suggest that no picture can attract serious attention without a particular sort of human being attached to it in the viewer’s mind. If you are unwilling to claim credit for your pictures, and to say why you hoped others might find them worth examining, there goes the ball game.
“Pictures are famous for their humanness, and not for their pictureness.”
I went on: “There is also the matter of craftsmanship. Real picture-lovers like to play along, so to speak, to look closely at the surfaces, to see how the illusion was created. If you are unwilling to say how you made your pictures, there goes the ball game a second time.
“Good luck, and love as always,” I wrote. And I signed my name.

44
I myself paint pictures on sheets of acetate with black India ink. An artist half my age, Joe Petro III, who lives and works in Lexington, Kentucky, prints them by means of the silk-screen process. I paint a separate acetate sheet, again in opaque black, for each color I want Joe to use. I do not see my pictures, which I have painted in black alone, in color until Joe has printed them, one color at a time.
I make negatives for his positives.
There may be easier, quicker, and cheaper ways to create pictures. They might leave us more time for golf, and for making model airplanes and whacking off. We should look into that. Joe’s studio looks like something out of the Middle Ages.
I can’t thank Joe enough for having me make negatives for his positives after the little radio in my head stopped receiving messages from wherever it is the bright ideas come from. Art is so absorbing.
It is a sopper-upper.
Listen: Only three weeks ago at this writing, on September 6th, 1996, Joe and I opened a show of twenty-six of our prints in the 1/1 Gallery in Denver, Colorado. A local microbrewery, Wynkoop, bottled a special beer for the occasion. The label was one of my self-portraits. The name of the beer was Kurt’s Mile-High Malt.
You think that wasn’t fun? Try this: The beer, at my suggestion, was lightly flavored with coffee. What was so great about that? It tasted really good, for one thing, but it was also an homage to my maternal grandfather Albert Lieber, who was a brewer until he was put out of business by Prohibition in 1920. The secret ingredient in the beer that won a Gold Medal for the Indianapolis Brewery at the Paris Exposition of 1889 was coffee!
Ting-a-ling!
 
That still wasn’t enough fun out there in Denver? OK, how about the fact that the name of the owner of the Wynkoop Brewing Company, a guy about Joe’s age, was John Hickenlooper? So what? Only this: When I went to Cornell University to become a chemist fifty-six years ago, I was made a fraternity brother of a man named John Hickenlooper.
Ting-a-ling?
This was his son! My fraternity brother had died when this son was only seven. I knew more about him than his own son did! I was able to tell this young Denver brewer that his dad, in partnership with another Delta Upsilon brother, John Locke, sold candy and soft drinks and cigarettes out of a big closet at the top of the stairs on the second floor of the fraternity house.
They christened it Hickenlooper’s Lockenbar. We called it Lockenlooper’s Hickenbar, and Barkenhicker’s Loopenlock, and Lockenbarker’s Loopenhick, and so on.
Happy days! We thought we’d live forever.
Old beer in new bottles. Old jokes in new people.
I told young John Hickenlooper a joke his dad taught me. It worked like this: His dad would say to me, no matter where we were, “Are you a member of the Turtle Club?” I had no choice but to bellow at the top of my lungs, “YOU BET YOUR ASS I AM!”
I could do the same thing to his dad. On some particularly solemn and sacred occasion, such as the swearing in of new fraternity brothers, I might whisper to him, “Are you a member of the Turtle Club?” He would have no choice but to bellow at the top of his lungs, “YOU BET YOUR ASS I AM!”
 
45
Another old joke: “Hello, my name is Spalding. No doubt you’ve played with my balls.” It doesn’t work anymore because Spalding is no longer a major manufacturer of athletic equipment, just as Lieber Gold Medal Beer is no longer a popular recreational drug in the Middle West, and just as the Vonnegut Hardware Company is no longer a manufacturer and retailer of durable and eminently practical goods out that way.
The hardware company was put out of business fair and square by livelier competitors. The Indianapolis Brewery was shut down by Article XVIII of the United States Constitution, which declared in 1919 that the manufacture, sale, or transportation of intoxicating liquors was against the law.
The Indianapolis humorist Kin Hubbard said about Prohibition that it was “better than no liquor at all.” Intoxicating liquors did not become lawful again until 1933. By then, the bootlegger Al Capone owned Chicago, and Joseph P. Kennedy, father of a murdered-President-to-be, was a multimillionaire.
At the daybreak that followed the opening of Joe Petro III’s and my show in Denver, a Sunday, I awoke alone in a room in the oldest hotel there, the Oxford. I knew where I was and how I had gotten there. It wasn’t as though I had been drunk as a hooty-owl on Grandfather’s beer the night before.
I dressed and stepped outside. Nobody else I could see was up yet. There were no moving vehicles. If free will had chosen to kick in again at that moment, and I had been off balance and so fallen down, nobody would have run over me.
The best thing to be when free will kicks in, probably, is a Mbuti, a Pygmy in a rain forest in Zaire, Africa.
Two hundred yards from my hotel was the husk of what used to be the throbbing heart of the city, its turgid auricles and ventricles. I mean its passenger railroad station. It was completed in 1880. Only two trains a day stop there now.
I myself was antique enough to remember as terrific music the hissing and rolling thunder of steam locomotives, and their mournful whistles, and the metronomic clicks of wheels on joints in the rails, and the apparent rise and fall, thanks to the Doppler effect, of the pitch of warning bells at crossings.
I remembered labor history, too, because the first effective strikes by American working people for better pay, and more respect, and safer working conditions, were called against the railroads. And then against owners of coal mines and steel mills and textile mills, and on and on. Much blood was shed in what appeared to most members of my generation of American writers to be battles as worth fighting as any against a foreign enemy.
The optimism that infused so much of our writing was based on our belief that after Magna Carta, and then the Declaration of Independence, and then the Bill of Rights, and then the Emancipation Proclamation, and then Article XIX of the Constitution, which in 1920 entitled women to vote, some scheme for economic justice could also be devised. That was the logical next step.
And even in 1996, I in speeches propose the following amendments to the Constitution: Article XXVIII: Every newborn shall be sincerely welcomed and cared for until maturity. Article XXIX: Every adult who needs it shall be given meaningful work to do, at a living wage.
What we have created instead, as customers and employees and investors, is mountains of paper wealth so enormous that a handful of people in charge of them can take millions and billions for themselves without hurting anyone. Apparently.

Many members of my generation are disappointed.

46
Can you believe it? Kilgore Trout, who never even saw a stage play until he got to Xanadu, not only wrote a play after he got home from our war, which was World War Two, but he copyrighted it! I have just retrieved it from the memory banks of the Library of Congress, and it is entitled The Wrinkled Old Family Retainer.
It is like a birthday present from my computer here in the Sinclair Lewis Suite at Xanadu. Wow! The date yesterday was November 11th, 2010. I have just turned eighty-eight, or ninety-eight, if you want to count the rerun. My wife, Monica Pepper Vonnegut, says eighty-eight is a very lucky number, and so is ninety-eight. She is heavily into numerology.
My darling daughter Lily will turn twenty-eight on December 15th! Who ever thought I would live to see that day?
The Wrinkled Old Family Retainer is about a wedding. The bride is Mirabile Dictu, a virgin. The groom is Flagrante Delicto, a heartless womanizer.
Sotto Voce, a male guest standing at the fringe of the ceremony, says out of the corner of his mouth to a guy standing next to him, “I don’t bother with all this. I simply find a woman who hates me, and I give her a house.”
And the other guy says, as the groom is kissing the bride, “All women are psychotic. All men are jerks.” The eponymous wrinkled old family retainer, crying his rheumy eyes out behind a potted palm, is Scrotum.
Monica is still obsessed by the mystery of who left a cigar smoldering beneath the smoke alarm in the picture gallery of the Academy minutes before free will kicked in again. That was more than nine years ago! Who cares? What difference can knowing that make? That’s like knowing what the white stuff in bird poop is.
What Kilgore Trout did with that cigar was scrooch it out in the saucer. He scrooched and scrooched and scrooched it, by his own admission to Monica and me, as though it were responsible not only for the yelling of the smoke alarm, but for all the din outside as well.
“The wheel that squeaks the loudest gets the oil,” he said.
He realized the absurdity of what he was doing, he said, only when, as he took a painting down from the wall, preparing to hit the alarm with a corner of the frame, the alarm fell silent of its own accord.
He hung up the painting again, and even made sure it was hanging straight. “That seemed somehow important, that the picture was nice and straight,” he said, “and evenly spaced from the others. At least I could make that little part of the chaotic Universe exactly as it should be. I was grateful for the opportunity to do that.”
He returned to the entrance hall, expecting the armed guard to be awakening from his torpor. But Dudley Prince was still a statue, still convinced that, if he budged, he would find himself back in prison again.
Trout again confronted him, saying, “Wake up! Wake up! You’ve got free will again, and there’s work to do!” And so on.
Nothing.

Trout had an inspiration! Instead of trying to sell the concept of free will, which he himself didn’t believe in, he said this: “You’ve been very sick! Now you’re well again. You’ve been very sick! Now you’re well again.”
That mantra worked!
Trout could have been a great advertising man. The same has been said of Jesus Christ. The basis of every great advertisement is a credible promise. Jesus promised better times in an afterlife. Trout was promising the same thing in the here and now.
Dudley Prince’s spiritual rigor mortis began to thaw! Trout hastened his recovery by telling him to snap his fingers and stamp his feet, and stick out his tongue and wiggle his butt, and so on.
Trout, who had never even earned a High School Equivalency Certificate, had nonetheless become a real-life Dr. Frankenstein!

47
Uncle Alex Vonnegut, who said we should exclaim out loud whenever we were accidentally happy, was considered a fool by his wife, Aunt Raye. He certainly started out as a fool when a spanking-new freshman at Harvard. Uncle Alex was asked to explain in an essay why he had come to Harvard all the way from Indianapolis. By his own gleeful account, he wrote, “Because my big brother is at MIT.”
He never had a kid, and never owned a gun. He owned a lot of books, though, and kept buying new ones, and giving me those he thought were particularly well done. It was an ordeal for him to find this book or that one, so he could read some particularly magical passage aloud to me. Here’s why: His wife Aunt Raye, who was said to be artistic, arranged his library according to the size and color of the volumes, and stairstep style.
So he might say of a collection of essays by his hero H. L. Mencken, “I think it was green, and about this high.”
His sister, my aunt Irma, said to me one time when I was a grownup, “All Vonnegut men are scared to death of women.” Her two brothers were sure as heck scared of her.
Listen: A Harvard education for my Uncle Alex wasn’t the trophy of a micromanaged Darwinian victory over others that it is today. His father, the architect Bernard Vonnegut, sent him there in order that he might become civilized, which he did indeed become, although fabulously henpecked, and nothing more than a life insurance salesman.
I am eternally grateful to him, and indirectly to what Harvard used to be, I suppose, for my knack of finding in great books, some of them very funny books, reason enough to feel honored to be alive, no matter what else may be going on.
It now appears that books in the form so beloved by Uncle Alex and me, hinged and unlocked boxes, packed with leaves speckled by ink, are obsolescent. My grandchildren are already doing much of their reading from words projected on the face of a video screen.
Please, please, please wait just a minute!
At the time of their invention, books were devices as crassly practical for storing or transmitting language, albeit fabricated from scarcely modified substances found in forest and field and animals, as the latest Silicon Valley miracles. But by accident, not by cunning calculation, books, because of their weight and texture, and because of their sweetly token resistance to manipulation, involve our hands and eyes, and then our minds and souls, in a spiritual adventure I would be very sorry for my grandchildren not to know about.

48
It is piquant to me that one of the greatest poets and one of the greatest playwrights of this century would both deny that they were from the Middle West, specifically from St. Louis, Missouri. I mean T. S. Eliot, who wound up sounding like the Archbishop of Canterbury, and Tennessee Williams, a product of Washington University in St. Louis and the University of Iowa, who wound up sounding like Ashley Wilkes in Gone With the Wind.
True enough, Williams was born in Mississippi, but moved to St. Louis when he was seven. And it was he who named himself Tennessee when he was twenty-seven. Before he did that to himself, he was Tom.
Cole Porter was born in Peru, Indiana, pronounced PEEROO. “Night and Day”? “Begin the Beguine”? Not bad, not bad.
Kilgore Trout was born in a hospital in Bermuda, near where his father, Raymond, was gathering material for a follow-up on his doctoral dissertation on the last of the Bermuda Erns. The sole remaining rookery of those great blue birds, the largest of all pelagic raptors, was on Dead Man’s Rock, an otherwise uninhabited lava steeple in the center of the notorious Bermuda Triangle. Trout was in fact conceived on Dead Man’s Rock during his parents’ honeymoon.
What was particularly interesting about these erns was that the female birds, and not anything people had done, so far as anybody could tell, were to blame for the rapidly dwindling population. In the past, and presumably for thousands of years, the females had hatched their eggs, and tended the young, and finally taught them to fly by kicking them off the top of the steeple.
But when Raymond Trout went there as a doctoral candidate with his bride, he found that the females had taken to bowdlerizing the nurturing process by kicking the eggs off the top of the steeple.
Thus did Kilgore Trout’s father providentially become a specialist, thanks to the female Bermuda Erns’ initiative, or whatever you want to call it, in evolutionary mechanisms governing fates of species, mechanisms other than the Occam’s Razor of Darwin’s Natural Selection.
Nothing would do, then, but that the Trout family, when little Kilgore was nine, spend the summer of 1926 camped on the shore of Disappointment Lake in inland Nova Scotia. The Dalhousie Woodpeckers in that area had quit the brain-rattling business of pecking wood, and were feasting on the plentiful blackflies on the backs of deer and moose instead.
Dalhousies, of course, are the commonest woodpeckers in eastern Canada, mainly, ranging from Newfoundland to Manitoba, and from Hudson Bay to Detroit, Michigan. Only those around Disappointment Lake, however, identical with the rest in plumage and beak size and shape, and so on, had stopped getting at bugs the hard way, digging them out one at a time, from holes the bugs had made or found in tree trunks.
They were first observed gorging on blackflies in 1916, with World War One going on in the other hemisphere. The Disappointment Lake Dalhousies, however, were not subjected to observation year after year before that, or since. This was because the clouds of voracious blackflies, often resembling little tornadoes, according to Trout, made the apostate Dalhousies’ habitat virtually uninhabitable by human beings.

So the Trout family spent the summer up there dressed like beekeepers night and day, in gloves, in long-sleeved shirts tied at the wrists, and long pants tied at the ankles, in wide-brimmed hats draped with gauze, to protect their heads and necks, no matter how hellishly hot the weather. Father, mother, and son dragged the camping gear and a heavy motion picture camera and tripod to the marshy campsite while harnessed to a travois.
Dr. Trout expected to film nothing more than ordinary Dalhousies, indistinguishable from other Dalhousies, but pecking at the backs of deer and moose instead of tree trunks. Such simple pictures would have been exciting enough, showing that lower animals were capable of cultural as well as biological evolution. One might have extrapolated from them the supposition that one bird in the flock was a sort of Albert Einstein, so to speak, having theorized and then proved that blackflies were as nutritious as anything that could be dug out of a tree trunk.
Was Dr. Trout ever in for a surprise, though! Not only were these birds obscenely fat, and thus easy prey for predators. They were exploding, too! Spores from a tree fungus growing near Dalhousie nests found an opportunity to become a new disease in the intestinal tracts of the overweight birds, thanks to certain chemicals in the bodies of blackflies.
The new life-style of the fungus inside the birds at one point triggered the sudden release of quantities of carbon dioxide so copious that the birds blew up! One Dalhousie, perhaps the last veteran of the Disappointment Lake experiment, would explode a year later in a park in Detroit, Michigan, setting off the second-worst race riot in the Motor City’s history.

49
Trout wrote a story one time about another race riot. It was on a planet twice as big as Earth, orbiting Puke, a star the size of a BB, two billion years ago.
I asked my big brother Bernie in the American Museum of Natural History in New York, and this was long before the period of the rerun, whether he believed in Darwin’s theory of evolution. He said he did, and I asked how come, and he said, “Because it’s the only game in town.”
Bernie’s reply is the tag line of yet another joke from long ago, like “Ting-a-ling, you son of a bitch!” It seems a guy is off to play cards, and a friend tells him the game is crooked. The guy says, “Yeah, I know, but it’s the only game in town.”
I am too lazy to chase down the exact quotation, but the British astronomer Fred Hoyle said something to this effect: That believing in Darwin’s theoretical mechanisms of evolution was like believing that a hurricane could blow through a junkyard and build a Boeing 747.
No matter what is doing the creating, I have to say that the giraffe and the rhinoceros are ridiculous.
And so is the human brain, capable, in cahoots with the more sensitive parts of the body, such as the ding-dong, of hating life while pretending to love it, and behaving accordingly: “Somebody shoot me while I’m happy!”
Kilgore Trout, the ornithologist’s son, wrote in My Ten Years on Automatic Pilot: “The Fiduciary is a mythological bird. It has never existed in Nature, never could, never will.”
Trout is the only person who ever said a fiduciary was any sort of bird. The noun (from the Latin fiducia, confidence, trust) in fact identifies a sort of Homo sapiens who will conserve the property, and nowadays especially paper or computer representations of wealth, belonging to other people, including the treasuries of their governments.
He or she or it cannot exist, thanks to the brain and the ding-dong, et cetera. So we have in this summer of 1996, rerun or not, and as always, faithless custodians of capital making themselves multimillionaires and multibillionaires, while playing beanbag with money better spent on creating meaningful jobs and training people to fill them, and raising our young and retiring our old in surroundings of respect and safety.
For Christ’s sake, let’s help more of our frightened people get through this thing, whatever it is.
Why throw money at problems? That is what money is for.
Should the nation’s wealth be redistributed? It has been and continues to be redistributed to a few people in a manner strikingly unhelpful.

Let me note that Kilgore Trout and I have never used semicolons. They don’t do anything, don’t suggest anything. They are transvestite hermaphrodites.
Yes, and any dream of taking better care of our people might as well be a transvestite hermaphrodite without some scheme for giving us all the support and companionship of extended families, within which sharing and compassion are more plausible than in an enormous nation, and a Fiduciary may not be as mythical as the Roc and the Phoenix after all.

50
I am so old that I can remember when the word fuck was thought to be so full of bad magic that no respectable publication would print it. Another old joke: “Don’t say ‘fuck’ in front of the B-A-B-Y.”
A word just as full of poison, supposedly, but which could be spoken in polite company, provided the speaker’s tone implied fear and loathing, was Communism, denoting an activity as commonly and innocently practiced in many primitive societies as fucking.
So it was a particularly elegant commentary on the patriotism and nice-nellyism during the deliberately insane Vietnam War when the satirist Paul Krassner printed red-white-and-blue bumper stickers that said FUCK COMMUNISM!
My novel Slaughterhouse-Five was attacked back then for containing the word motherfucker. In an early episode, somebody takes a shot at four American soldiers caught behind the German lines. One American snarls at another one, who, as I say, has never fucked anyone, “Get your head down, you dumb motherfucker.”
Ever since those words were published, mothers of sons have had to wear chastity belts while doing housework.
I of course understand that the widespread revulsion inspired even now, and perhaps forever, by the word Communism is a sane response to the cruelties and stupidities of the dictators of the USSR, who called themselves, hey presto, Communists, just as Hitler called himself, hey presto, a Christian.
To children of the Great Depression, however, it still seems a mild shame to outlaw from polite thought, because of the crimes of tyrants, a word that in the beginning described for us nothing more than a possibly reasonable alternative to the Wall Street crapshoot.
Yes, and the word Socialist was the second S in USSR, so good-bye, Socialism along with Communism, good-bye to the soul of Eugene Debs of Terre Haute, Indiana, where the moonlight’s shining bright along the Wabash. From the fields there comes the breath of new-mown hay.
“While there is a soul in prison, I am not free.”
The Great Depression was a time for discussing all sorts of alternatives to the Wall Street crapshoot, which had suddenly killed so many businesses, including banks. The crapshoot left millions and millions of Americans without any way to pay for food and shelter and clothing.
So what?
That was almost a century ago, if you want to count the rerun. Forget it! Practically everybody who was alive back then is deader than a mackerel. Happy Socialism to them in the Afterlife!
What matters now is that, on the afternoon of February 13th, 2001, Kilgore Trout roused Dudley Prince from his Post-Timequake Apathy. Trout urged him to speak, to say anything, no matter how nonsensical. Trout suggested he

say, “I pledge allegiance to the flag,” or whatever, to prove to himself thereby that he was again in charge of his own destiny.
Prince spoke groggily at first. He didn’t pledge allegiance, but indicated instead that he was trying to understand everything Trout had said to him so far. He said, “You told me I had something.”
“You were sick, but now you’re well, and there’s work to do,” said Trout. “Before that,” said Prince. “You said I had something.”
“Forget it,” said Trout. “I was all excited. I wasn’t making sense.”
“I still want to know what you said I had,” said Prince.
“I said you had free will,” said Trout.
“Free will, free will, free will,” echoed Prince with wry wonderment. “I always wondered what it was I had. Now
I got a name for it.”
“Please forget what I said,” said Trout. “There are lives to save!” “You know what you can do with free will?” said Prince.
“No,” said Trout.
“You can stuff it up your ass,” said Prince.

51
When I liken Trout there in the entrance hall of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, awakening Dudley Prince from PTA, to Dr. Frankenstein, I am alluding of course to the antihero of the novel Frankenstein—or, The Modern Prometheus, by Mary Wollstonecraft Shelley, second wife of the English poet Percy Bysshe Shelley. In that book, the scientist Frankenstein puts a bunch of body parts from different corpses together in the shape of a man.
Frankenstein jazzes them with electricity. The results in the book are exact opposites of those since achieved in real-life American state penitentiaries with real-life electric chairs. Most people think Frankenstein is the monster. He isn’t. Frankenstein is the scientist.
Prometheus in Greek mythology makes the first human beings from mud. He steals fire from Heaven and gives it to them so they can be warm and cook, and not, one would hope, so we could incinerate all the little yellow bastards in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which are in Japan.
In chapter 2 of this wonderful book of mine, I mention a commemoration in the chapel of the University of Chicago of the fiftieth anniversary of the atom-bombing of Hiroshima. I said at the time that I had to respect the opinion of my friend William Styron that the Hiroshima bomb saved his life. Styron was then a United States Marine, training for an invasion of the Japanese home islands, when that bomb was dropped.
I had to add, though, that I knew a single word that proved our democratic government was capable of committing obscene, gleefully rabid and racist, yahooistic murders of unarmed men, women, and children, murders wholly devoid of military common sense. I said the word. It was a foreign word. That word was Nagasaki.
Whatever! That, too, was a long, long time ago, and ten years longer ago than that, if you want to count the rerun. What I find worth exclaiming about right now is the continuing applicability to the human condition, years after free will has ceased to be a novelty, of what jazzed Dudley Prince back to life, of what is now known generally as Kilgore’s Creed: “You were sick, but now you’re well again, and there’s work to do.”
Teachers in public schools across the land, I hear, say Kilgore’s Creed to students after the students have recited the Pledge of Allegiance and the Lord’s Prayer at the beginning of each school day. Teachers say it seems to help.
A friend told me he was at a wedding where the minister said at the climax of the ceremony: “You were sick, but now you’re well again, and there’s work to do. I now pronounce you man and wife.”
Another friend, a biochemist for a cat food company, said she was staying at a hotel in Toronto, Canada, and she asked the front desk to give her a wake-up call in the morning. She answered her phone the next morning, and the operator said, “You were sick, but now you’re well again, and there’s work to do. It’s seven a.m., and the temperature outside is thirty-two degrees Fahrenheit, or zero Celsius.”
On the afternoon of February 13th, 2001, alone, and then during the next two weeks or so, Kilgore’s Creed did as much to save life on Earth as Einstein’s E equals mc squared had done to end it two generations earlier.
Trout had Dudley Prince say the magic words to the other two armed guards on the day shift at the Academy. They went into the former Museum of the American Indian, and said them to the catatonic bums in there. A goodly number of the aroused sacred cattle, maybe a third of them, became anti-PTA evangelists in turn. Armed with

nothing more than Kilgore’s Creed, these ragged veterans of unemployability fanned out through the neighborhood to convert more living statues to lives of usefulness, to helping the injured, or at least getting them the hell indoors somewhere before they froze to death.
“God is in the details,” Anonymous tells us in the sixteenth edition of Bartlett’s Familiar Quotations. The seemingly pipsqueak detail of what became of the armored limousine that delivered Zoltan Pepper to be creamed by the hook- and-ladder as he rang the doorbell of the Academy is a case in point. The limousine driver, Jerry Rivers, had moved it fifty yards to the west, toward the Hudson River, after unloading his paraplegic passenger and his wheelchair on the sidewalk.
That was still part of the rerun. Rerun or not, though, Jerry wasn’t to stay parked in front of the Academy, lest the luxury vehicle arouse suspicions that the Academy might not be an abandoned building after all. If that hadn’t been the policy, the limousine would have absorbed the impact of the fire truck, and possibly but not certainly saved the life of Zoltan Pepper as he rang the doorbell.
But at what cost? The entrance to the Academy would not have been broached, giving Kilgore Trout access to Dudley Prince and the other armed guards. Trout could not have put on a spare guard’s uniform he found in there, which made him look like an authority figure. He would not have been able to arm himself with the Academy’s bazooka, with which he knocked out the braying burglar alarms of impacted but unoccupied parked vehicles.

52
The American Academy of Arts and Letters owned a bazooka because the warlords who knocked over Columbia University spearheaded their attack with a tank stolen from the Rainbow Division of the National Guard. They were so audacious that they flew Old Glory, The Stars and Stripes.
It is conceivable that the warlords, with whom nobody messes, any more than anybody messes with the ten biggest corporations, consider themselves as American as anyone. “America,” wrote Kilgore Trout in MTYOAP, “is the interplay of three hundred million Rube Goldberg contraptions invented only yesterday.
“And you better have an extended family,” he added, although he himself had done without one between the time he was discharged from the Army, on September 11th, 1945, and March 1st, 2001, the day he and Monica Pepper and Dudley Prince and Jerry Rivers arrived by armored limousine, with an overloaded trailer wallowing behind, at Xanadu.
Rube Goldberg was a newspaper cartoonist during the terminal century of the previous Christian millennium. He drew pictures of absurdly complex and undependable machines, employing treadmills and trapdoors and bells and whistles, and domestic animals in harness and blowtorches and mailmen and light bulbs, and firecrackers and mirrors and radios and Victrolas, and pistols firing blank cartridges, and so on, in order to accomplish some simple task, such as closing a window blind.
Yes, and Trout harped on the human need for extended families, and I still do, because it is so obvious that we, because we are human, need them as much as we need proteins and carbohydrates and fats and vitamins and essential minerals.
I have just read about a teenage father who shook his baby to death because it couldn’t control its anal sphincter yet and wouldn’t stop crying. In an extended family, there would have been other people around, who would have rescued and comforted the baby, and the father, too.
If the father had been raised in an extended family, he might not have been such an awful father, or maybe not a father at all yet, because he was still too young to be a good one, or because he was too crazy to ever be a good one.
I was in southern Nigeria in 1970, at the very end of the Biafran War there, on the Biafran side, the losing side, the mostly Ibo side, long before the rerun. I met an Ibo father of a new baby. He had four hundred relatives! Even with a losing war going on, he and his wife were about to go on a trip, introducing the baby to all its relatives.
When the Biafran army needed replacements, big Ibo families met to decide who should go. In peacetime, the families met to decide who should go to college, often to Cal Tech or Oxford or Harvard, a long way off. And then a whole family chipped in to pay for the travel and tuition and clothing suitable for the climate and dominant society where a kid was going next.
I met the Ibo writer Chinua Achebe over there. He is teaching and writing at Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, New York, 12504, over here now. I asked him how the Ibos were now, with Nigeria run by a rapacious junta which regularly hangs its critics for having much too much free will.
Chinua said no Ibos had roles in the government, nor did they want any. He said Ibos survived in modest businesses unlikely to bring them into conflict with the government or its friends, which included representatives of Shell Oil Company.
They must have held many meetings, in which ethics as well as survival schemes were debated.

And they still send their smartest kids off to the best universities far away.
When I celebrate the idea of a family and family values, I don’t mean a man and a woman and their kids, new in town, scared to death, and not knowing whether to shit or go blind in the midst of economic and technological and ecological and political chaos. I’m talking about what so many Americans need so frantically: what I had in Indianapolis before World War Two, and what the characters in Thornton Wilder’s Our Town had, and what the Ibos have.
In chapter 45, I proposed two amendments to the Constitution. Here are two more, little enough to expect from life, one would think, like the Bill of Rights:
Article XXX: Every person, upon reaching a statutory age of puberty, shall be declared an adult in a solemn public ritual, during which he or she must welcome his or her new responsibilities in the community, and their attendant dignities.
Article XXXI: Every effort shall be made to make every person feel that he or she will be sorely missed when he or she is gone.
Such essential elements in an ideal diet for a human spirit, of course, can be provided convincingly only by extended families.

53
The monster in Frankenstein—or, The Modern Prometheus turns mean because he finds it so humiliating to be alive and yet so ugly, so unpopular. He kills Frankenstein, who, again, is the scientist and not the monster. And let me hasten to say that my big brother Bernie never has been a Frankenstein-style scientist, never has worked nor would have worked on purposely destructive devices of any sort. He hasn’t been a Pandora, either, turning loose new poisons or new diseases or whatever.
According to Greek mythology, Pandora was the first woman. She was made by the gods who were angry with Prometheus for making a man out of mud and then stealing fire from them. Making a woman was their revenge. They gave Pandora a box. Prometheus begged her not to open it. She opened it. Every evil to which human flesh is heir came out of it.
The last thing to come out of the box was hope. It flew away.
I didn’t make that depressing story up. Neither did Kilgore Trout. Ancient Greeks did.
This is the point I want to make, though: Frankenstein’s monster was unhappy and destructive, whereas the people Trout energized in the neighborhood of the Academy, although most of them wouldn’t have won any beauty contests, were by and large cheerful and public-spirited.
I have to say most of them wouldn’t have won any beauty contests. There was at least one strikingly beautiful woman involved. That was a member of the Academy’s office staff. That was Clara Zine. Monica Pepper is certain that Clara Zine was the one who was smoking the cigar that set off the smoke alarm in the picture gallery. When confronted by Monica, Clara Zine swore that in her whole life she had never smoked a cigar, that she hated cigars, and she disappeared.
I have no idea what has become of her.
Clara Zine and Monica were tending the wounded in the former Museum of the American Indian, which Trout had turned into a hospital, when Monica asked Clara about the cigar, and then Clara departed in a huffmobile.
Trout, carrying what had become his bazooka, and accompanied by Dudley Prince and the other two armed guards, had thrown out all the bums who were still in the shelter. They did that in order to free up the cots for people with broken limbs or skulls or whatever, who needed and deserved to lie down where it was warm even more than the bums did.
It was triage, such as Kilgore Trout had seen practiced on World War Two battlefields. “I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country,” said the American patriot Nathan Hale. “Fuck the bums!” said the American patriot Kilgore Trout.
It was Jerry Rivers, the chauffeur of the Peppers’ stretch limousine, however, who steered his dreamboat around wrecked vehicles and their victims, often driving on sidewalks, to reach the studios of the Columbia Broadcasting System down on West 52nd Street. Rivers awakened the staff there with, “You were sick, but now you’re well again, and there’s work to do.” And then he got them to broadcast that same message on both radio and TV from coast to coast.

In order to get them to do that, though, he had to tell them a lie. He said everybody was recovering from a nerve gas attack by persons unknown. So the first version of Kilgore’s Creed to reach millions in the nation, and then billions in the world, was this: “This is a CBS exclusive! There has been a nerve gas attack by persons unknown. You were sick, but now you’re well again, and there’s work to do. Make sure all children and senior citizens are safe indoors.”

54
Certainly! Mistakes were made! But Trout’s silencing of automobile burglar alarms with his bazooka wasn’t one of them. If a manual is to be written about how to behave in urban areas should there be another timequake, and then a rerun, and then free will kicks in again, it should recommend that every neighborhood have a bazooka, and that responsible adults know where it is.
Mistakes? The manual should point out that vehicles themselves are not responsible for the damage they cause, whether controlled or not. Punishing automobiles as though they were rebellious slaves in need of a hiding is a waste of time! Scapegoating cars and trucks and buses still in running condition, simply because they are automobiles, moreover, deprives rescue workers and refugees of their means of transportation.
As Trout advises in MTYOAP: “Beating the daylights out of a stranger’s parked Dodge Intrepid may well afford fleeting relief from symptoms of stress. When all is said and done, though, that can only leave the life of its owner even more of a crock of shit than it was before. Do unto others’ vehicles as you would have them do unto yours.
“It is pure superstition that a motor vehicle with its ignition turned off can start itself up without the help of a human being,” he goes on. “If, after free will kicks in, you must yank the ignition keys out of driverless vehicles whose engines aren’t running, please, please, please throw the keys into a mailbox, and not down a storm sewer or into a trash-strewn vacant lot.”
The biggest mistake Trout himself made, probably, was in turning the American Academy of Arts and Letters into a morgue. The steel front door and its frame were tacked up back in place again, to keep the heat inside. It would have made more sense to line up the bodies outside, where the temperature was well below freezing.
And Trout couldn’t have been expected to worry about it, way-the-hell-and-gone up there on West 155th, but some awakened member of the Federal Aviation Administration should have realized, after all the crashing at ground level petered out, that there were still planes aloft on automatic pilot. Their crews and passengers, still gaga with untreated PTA, couldn’t care doodley what would happen when the fuel ran out.
In ten minutes, or maybe an hour, or maybe three hours or whatever, their heavier-than-air-craft, often six miles up, would cash in the chips, would buy the farm, for all aboard.
For the Mbuti, the rain forest Pygmies of Zaire, Africa, February 13th, 2001, was in all probability a day neither more nor less amazing than any other day, unless a rogue airplane happened to land on top of one of them after the rerun stopped.
The worst of all aircraft when free will kicks in, of course, are helicopters, or choppers, air screws first envisioned by the genius Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519). Choppers can’t glide. Choppers don’t want to fly in the first place.
A safer place than a helicopter aloft is a roller coaster or a Ferris wheel.
Yes, and when martial law was established in New York City, the former Museum of the American Indian was turned into a barracks, and Kilgore Trout was relieved of his bazooka, and the Academy’s headquarters were requisitioned as an officers’ club, and he and Monica Pepper and Dudley Prince and Jerry Rivers took off in the limousine for Xanadu.
Trout, the former hobo, had expensive clothing, including shoes and socks and underwear and cuff links, and matched Louis Vuitton luggage which had belonged to Zoltan Pepper. Everybody agreed that Monica’s husband was better off dead. What would he have had to look forward to?

When Trout found Zoltan’s flattened and elongated wheelchair in the middle of West 155th Street, he leaned it against a tree and said it was modern art. The two wheels had been squashed together so they looked like one. Trout said it was a six-foot aluminum-and-leather praying mantis, trying to ride a unicycle.
He called it The Spirit of the Twenty-first Century.

55
I met the author Dick Francis at the Kentucky Derby years ago. I knew he had been a champion rider in steeplechases. I said he was a bigger man than I had expected. He replied that it took a big man to “hold a horse together” in a steeplechase. This image of his remained in the forefront of my memory so long, I think, because life itself can seem a lot like that: a matter of holding one’s self-respect together, instead of a horse, as one’s self-respect is expected to hurdle fences and hedges and water.
My dear thirteen-year-old daughter Lily, having become a pretty adolescent, appears to me, as do most American adolescents, to be holding her self-respect together the best she can in a really scary steeplechase.
I said to the new graduates at Butler University, not much older than Lily, that they were being called Generation X, two clicks from the end, but that they were as much Generation A as Adam and Eve had been. What malarkey!
Esprit de l’escalier! Better late than never! Only at this very moment in 1996, as I am about to write the next sentence, have I realized how meaningless the image of a Garden of Eden must have been to my young audience, since the world was so densely populated with other secretly frightened people, and so overplanted and rigged with both natural and manmade booby traps.
The next sentence: I should have told them they were like Dick Francis when Dick Francis was young, and astride an animal full of pride and panic, in the starting gate for a steeplechase.
More: If a steed balks again and again at hazards, it is put out to pasture. The self-respects of most middle-class American people my age or older, and still alive, are out to pasture now, not a bad place to be. They munch. They ruminate.
If self-respect breaks a leg, the leg can never heal. Its owner has to shoot it. My mother and Ernest Hemingway and my former literary agent and Jerzy Kosinski and my reluctant thesis advisor at the University of Chicago and Eva Braun all come to mind.
But not Kilgore Trout. His indestructible self-respect is what I loved most about Kilgore Trout. Men loving men can happen, in peacetime as well as war. I also loved my war buddy Bernard V. O’Hare.
Many people fail because their brains, their three-and-a-half-pound blood-soaked sponges, their dogs’ breakfasts, don’t work well enough. The cause of a failure can be as simple as that. Some people, try as they may, can’t cut the mustard! That’s that!
I have a male cousin my age who was doing miserably back in Shortridge High School. He was a hulking interior lineman, and very sweet. He brought home an awful report card. His father asked him, “What is the meaning of this?” My cousin responded as follows: “Don’t you know, Father? I’m dumb, I’m dumb.”
Put this in your pipe and smoke it: My maternal great-uncle Carl Barus was a founder and president of the American Physical Society. A building at Brown University is named in his honor. Uncle Carl Barus was a professor there for

many years. I never met him. My big brother did. Until this summer of 1996, Bernie and I had thought of him as a serene contributor to modest but tidy increases in human understanding of the laws of Nature.
Last June, though, I asked Bernie to tell me some specific discoveries, however small, made by our distinguished great-uncle, whose genes Bernie had inherited so outstandingly. Bernie’s response was anything but schnip-schnop, anything but prompt. Bernie was bemused to realize at such a late date that Uncle Carl, while making a career in physics attractive, had never told him about anything he himself had accomplished.
“I’ll have to look him up,” said Bernie.
Hold on to your hats!
Listen: Uncle Carl, in 1900 or thereabouts, experimented with the effects of X rays and radioactivity on condensation in a cloud chamber, a wooden cylinder filled with a fog he himself had concocted. He concluded and published as a certainty that ionization was relatively unimportant in condensation.
At about the same time, friends and neighbors, the Scottish physicist Charles Thomson Rees Wilson performed similar experiments with a cloud chamber made of glass. The canny Scot proved that ions produced by X rays and radioactivity had a lot to do with condensation. He criticized Uncle Carl for ignoring contamination from the wood walls of his chamber, for his crude method of making clouds, and for not shielding his fog from the electrical field of his X-ray apparatus.
Wilson went on to make paths of electrically charged particles visible to the naked eye by means of his cloud chamber. In 1927, he shared a Nobel Prize for Physics for doing this.
Uncle Carl must have felt like something the cat drug in!

56
A Luddite to the end, as was Kilgore Trout, as was Ned Ludd, the possibly but not certainly fictitious workman who smashed up machinery, supposedly, in Leicestershire, England, at the beginning of the nineteenth century, I persist in pecking away at a manual typewriter. That still leaves me technologically several generations ahead of William Styron and Stephen King, who, like Trout, write with pens on yellow legal pads.
I correct my pages with pen or pencil. I have come into Manhattan on business. I telephone a woman who has been doing my retyping for years and years now. She doesn’t have a computer, either. Maybe I should can her. She has moved from the city to a country town. I ask her what the weather is like out that way. I ask if there have been any unusual birds at her bird feeder. I ask if squirrels have found a way to get at it, and so on.
Yes, the squirrels have found a new way to get at the feeder. They can become trapeze artists, if they have to.
She has had back trouble in the past. I ask her how her back is. She says her back is OK. She asks how my daughter Lily is. I say Lily is OK. She asks how old Lily is now, and I say she’ll be fourteen in December.
She says, “Fourteen! My gosh, my gosh. It seems like only yesterday she was just a little baby.”
I say I have a few more pages for her to type. She says, “Good.” I will have to mail them to her, since she doesn’t have a fax. Again: Maybe I should can her.
I am still on the third floor of our brownstone in the city, and we don’t have an elevator. So down the stairs I go with my pages, clumpity, clumpity, clumpity. I get down to the first floor, where my wife has her office. Her favorite reading when she was Lily’s age was stories about Nancy Drew, the girl detective.
Nancy Drew is to Jill what Kilgore Trout is to me, so Jill says, “Where are you going?”
I say, “I am going to buy an envelope.”
She says, “You are not a poor man. Why don’t you buy a thousand envelopes and put them in a closet?” She thinks she is being logical. She has a computer. She has a fax. She has an answering machine on her telephone, so she doesn’t miss any important messages. She has a Xerox. She has all that garbage.
I say, “I’ll be back real soon.”
Out into the world I go! Muggers! Autograph hounds! Junkies! People with real jobs! Maybe an easy lay! United Nations functionaries and diplomats!
Our house is near the UN, so there are all kinds of really foreign-looking people getting in or out of illegally parked limousines, doing the best they can, like all the rest of us, to hold their self-respect together. As I saunter a half-block to the news store on Second Avenue, which also sells stationery, I can feel, if I so choose, because of all the foreigners, like Humphrey Bogart or Peter Lorre in Casablanca, the third-greatest movie ever made.
The greatest movie ever, as anybody with half a brain knows, is My Life as a Dog. The second-greatest movie ever is All About Eve.
There is a chance, moreover, that I will see Katharine Hepburn, a real movie star! She lives only one block from us! When I speak to her, and tell her my name, she always says, “Oh yes, you’re that friend of my brother’s.” I do not know her brother.
No such luck today, though, but what the heck. I am a philosopher. I have to be.

Into the news store I go. Relatively poor people, with lives not strikingly worth living, are lined up to buy lottery tickets or other crap. All keep their cool. They pretend they don’t know I’m a celebrity.
The store is a Ma-and-Pa joint owned by Hindus, honest-to-God Hindus! The woman has a teeny-weeny ruby between her eyes. That’s worth a trip. Who needs an envelope?
You must remember this, a kiss is still a kiss, a sigh is still a sigh.
I know the Hindus’ stock of stationery as well as they do. I didn’t study anthropology for nothing. I find one nine- by-twelve manila envelope without assistance, remembering simultaneously a joke about the Chicago Cubs baseball team. The Cubs were supposedly moving to the Philippine Islands, where they would be renamed the Manila Folders. That would have been a good joke about the Boston Red Sox, too.
I take my place at the end of the line, chatting with fellow customers who are buying something other than lottery tickets. The lottery ticket suckers, decorticated by hope and numerology, may as well be victims of Post-Timequake Apathy. You could run them over with an eighteen-wheeler. They wouldn’t care.

57
From the news store I go one block south to the Postal Convenience Station, where I am secretly in love with a woman behind the counter. I have already put my pages in the manila envelope. I address it, and then I take my place at the end of another long line. What I need now is postage! Yum, yum, yum!
The woman I love there does not know I love her. You want to talk about poker faces? When her eyes meet mine, she might as well be looking at a cantaloupe!
Because she works sitting down, and because of the counter and the smock she wears, all I have ever seen of her is from the neck up. That’s enough! From the neck up she is like a Thanksgiving dinner! I don’t mean she looks like a plateful of turkey and sweet potatoes and cranberry sauce. I mean she makes me feel like that is what has just been set before me. Dig in! Dig in!
Unadorned, I believe, her neck and face and ears and hair would still be Thanksgiving dinner. Every day, though, she hangs new dingle-dangles from her ears and around her neck. Sometimes her hair is up, sometimes it’s down. Sometimes it’s frizzy, sometimes it’s straight. What she can’t do with just her eyes and lips! One day I’m buying a stamp from Count Dracula’s daughter! The next day she’s the Virgin Mary.
This time she’s Ingrid Bergman in Stromboli. But she is a long way off still. There are many addled old poops, no good at counting money anymore, and immigrants talking gibberish, maddeningly imagining it to be English, in line ahead of me.
One time I had my pocket picked in that Postal Convenience Center. Convenient for whom?
I put the waiting time to good use. I learn about stupid bosses and jobs I will never have, and about parts of the world I will never see, and about diseases I hope I will never have, and about different kinds of dogs people have owned, and so on. By means of a computer? No. I do it by means of the lost art of conversation.
I at last have my envelope weighed and stamped by the only woman in the whole wide world who could make me sincerely happy. With her I wouldn’t have to fake it.
I go home. I have had one heck of a good time. Listen: We are here on Earth to fart around. Don’t let anybody tell you any different!

58
I have taught creative writing during my seventy-three years on automatic pilot, rerun or not. I did it first at the University of Iowa in 1965. After that came Harvard, and then the City College of New York. I don’t do it anymore.
I taught how to be sociable with ink on paper. I told my students that when they were writing they should be good dates on blind dates, should show strangers good times. Alternatively, they should run really nice whore-houses, come one, come all, although they were in fact working in perfect solitude. I said I expected them to do this with nothing but idiosyncratic arrangements in horizontal lines of twenty-six phonetic symbols, ten numbers, and maybe eight punctuation marks, because it wasn’t anything that hadn’t been done before.
In 1996, with movies and TV doing such good jobs of holding the attention of literates and illiterates alike, I have to question the value of my very strange, when you think about it, charm school. There is this: Attempted seductions with nothing but words on paper are so cheap for would-be ink-stained Don Juans or Cleopatras! They don’t have to get a bankable actor or actress to commit to the project, and then a bankable director, and so on, and then raise millions and millions of buckareenies from manic depressive experts on what most people want.
Still and all, why bother? Here’s my answer: Many people need desperately to receive this message: “I feel and think much as you do, care about many of the things you care about, although most people don’t care about them. You are not alone.”
Steve Adams, one of my three adopted nephews, was a successful TV comedy writer in Los Angeles, California, a few years back. His big brother Jim is an ex—Peace Corps guy and now a psychiatric nurse. His kid brother Kurt is a veteran pilot with Continental Airlines, with scrambled eggs on his cap, gold braid on his sleeves. All Steve’s kid brother ever wanted to do for a living was fly. A dream came true!
Steve learned the hard way that all his jokes for TV had to be about events that had been made much of by TV itself, and very recently. If a joke was about something that hadn’t been on TV for a month or more, the watchers wouldn’t have a clue, even though the laugh track was laughing, as to what they themselves were supposed to laugh about.
Guess what? TV is an eraser.
Having even the immediate past erased may indeed make it more comfortable for most people to get through this thing, whatever it is. Jane, my first wife, won her Phi Beta Kappa key at Swarthmore College over the objections of the History Department. She had written, and then argued in oral examinations, that all that could be learned from history was that history itself was absolutely nonsensical, so study something else, like music.
I agreed with her, and so would have Kilgore Trout. But history still hadn’t been erased back then. And when I started out as a writer, I could refer to events and personalities in the past, even the distant past, with a reasonable expectation that a fair number of readers would respond with some emotion, whether positive or negative, when I mentioned them.
Case in point: The murder of the greatest President this country will ever have, Abraham Lincoln, by the twenty- six-year-old ham actor John Wilkes Booth.
That assassination was a major event in Timequake One. Who is there left under the age of sixty, and not in a History Department, to give a damn?

59
Elias Pembroke, a fictitious Rhode Island naval architect who was Abraham Lincoln’s Assistant Secretary of the Navy during our Civil War, was a character in Timequake One. I said he made significant contributions to the design of the power train of the ironclad warship Monitor, but was neglectful of his wife, Julia, who fell in love with a dashing young actor and rakehell named John Wilkes Booth.
Julia wrote love letters to Booth. A tryst was arranged for April 14th, 1863, two years before Booth shot Lincoln from behind with a derringer. She went to New York City from Washington with a chaperone, the alcoholic wife of an admiral, ostensibly to shop, and to escape the tensions in the besieged capital. They checked into the hotel where Booth was staying, and attended his performance that night, as Marc Antony in Julius Caesar, by William Shakespeare.
As Marc Antony, Booth would speak lines horrifyingly prophetic in his case: “The evil that men do lives after them.”
Julia and her chaperone went backstage afterward and congratulated not only John Wilkes, but his brothers, Junius, who had played Brutus, and Edwin, who had played Cassius. The three American brothers, with John Wilkes the baby, in combination with their British father, Junius Brutus Booth, constituted what remains to this day the greatest family of tragedians in the history of the English-speaking stage.
John Wilkes gallantly kissed the hand of Julia, as though they had just met, and simultaneously slipped her a packet of chloral hydrate crystals, which would be the active ingredient in a Mickey Finn for the chaperone.
Julia had been given to believe by Booth that all she would receive from him when she came to his hotel room would be a single glass of champagne, and a single kiss she would cherish for the rest of her life after the war, back in Rhode Island, a life that would otherwise be humdrum. Madame Bovary!
Little did Julia suspect that Booth would mousetrap her champagne, just as she had mousetrapped her chaperone’s beddy-bye slug of wartime white lightning, with chloral hydrate.
Ting-a-ling!
Booth knocked her up! She had never had a kid before. Something was wrong with her husband’s ding-dong. She was thirty-one! The actor was twenty-four!
Incredible?
Her husband was delighted. She’s pregnant? There was nothing wrong with Assistant Secretary of the Navy Elias Pembroke’s ding-dong after all! Anchors aweigh!
Julia returned to Pembroke, Rhode Island, a town named in honor of an ancestor of her husband‘s, to have the kid. She was scared to death that the upper rims of the kid’s ears would be like those of John Wilkes Booth, pointed like a devil’s, instead of curved. But the kid had normal ears. It was a boy. It was christened Abraham Lincoln Pembroke.
That the only descendant of the most egomaniacal and destructive villain in American history should bear that name did not become supremely ironical until, exactly two years from the night Booth ejaculated in Julia’s birth canal while she was massively sedated, Booth sent a wad of lead into Lincoln’s dog’s breakfast, into Lincoln’s brain.
At Xanadu in 2001, I asked Kilgore Trout for his ballpark opinion of John Wilkes Booth. He said Booth’s performance in Ford’s Theater in Washington, D.C., on the night of Good Friday, April 14th, 1865, when he shot Lincoln and then jumped from a theater box to the stage, breaking his leg, was “the sort of thing which is bound to

happen whenever an actor creates his own material.”

60
Julia shared her secret with no one. Did she have regrets? Of course she did, but not about love. When she turned fifty, in 1882, she founded as a memorial for her only love affair, however brief and star-crossed, without saying that’s what it was, an amateur acting group, the Pembroke Mask and Wig Club.
And Abraham Lincoln Pembroke, ignorant of whose son he actually was, in 1889 founded Indian Head Mills, which became the largest textile mill in New England until 1947, when Abraham Lincoln Pembroke III locked out his striking ing employees and moved the company to North Carolina. Abraham Lincoln Pembroke IV subsequently sold it to an international conglomerate, which moved it to Indonesia, and he died of drink.
Not an actor in the bunch. Not a murderer in the bunch. No pixie ears.
Before Abraham Lincoln Pembroke III departed the town of Pembroke for North Carolina, he knocked up an unmarried African-American housemaid, Rosemary Smith. He paid her handsomely for her silence. He was gone when his child Frank Smith was born.
Hold on to your hats!
Frank Smith has pointed ears! Frank Smith has to be one of the greatest actors in the history of amateur theatricals! He is half black, half white, and only five feet, ten inches tall. But in the summer of 2001 he gave a stunningly convincing matinee performance in the title role in the Pembroke Mask and Wig Club’s production of Abe Lincoln in Illinois, by Robert E. Sherwood, with Kilgore Trout doing the sound effects!
The cast party afterward was a clambake on the beach at Xanadu. As in the last scene of 81⁄2, the motion picture by Federico Fellini, tout le monde was there, if not in person, then represented by look-alikes. Monica Pepper resembled my sister Allie. The bakemaster, a local man who is paid to stage such parties in the summertime, resembled my late publisher Seymour Lawrence (1926—1993), who rescued me from certain oblivion, from smithereens, by publishing Slaughterhouse-Five, and then bringing all my previous books back into print under his umbrella.
Kilgore Trout looked like my father.
The only sound effect Trout had to create backstage was in the last moments of the last scene of the last act of the play, of what Trout himself called “a manmade timequake.” He was equipped with an antique steam whistle from the heyday of Indian Head Mills. A plumber, who was a club member and looked a lot like my brother, put the gaily mournful whistle atop a tank of compressed air, with a valve in between. That is what Trout was, too, in all he wrote: gaily mournful.
There were of course many club members who had no parts in Abe Lincoln in Illinois, who would have liked at least to blow that big brass rooster, once they saw it and then heard it blown by the plumber himself during dress rehearsal. But the club most of all wanted Trout to feel that he was home at last, and a vital member of an extended family.
Not merely the club and the household staff at Xanadu, and the chapters of Alcoholics Anonymous and Gamblers Anonymous, which met in the ballroom there, and the battered women and children and grandparents who had found shelter there, were grateful for his healing and encouraging mantra, which made bad times a coma: You were sick, but now you’re well again, and there’s work to do. The whole world was.

61
In order that Trout not miss his cue to blow the whistle, which he was terrified of doing, of spoiling everything for his family, the plumber who looked like my brother stood behind him and the apparatus, his hands on Trout’s old shoulders. He would squeeze those shoulders gently when it was time for Trout’s debut in show biz.
The last scene in the play is set in the yards of the railroad station at Springfield, Illinois. The date is February 11th, 1861. Abraham Lincoln, in this instance played by the half-African-American great-great-grandson of John Wilkes Booth, having just been elected President of the United States in its darkest hour, is about to depart his hometown by railroad, for Washington, God help him, District of Columbia.
He says, as indeed Lincoln said: “No one, not in my situation, can appreciate my feelings of sadness at this parting. To this place, and the kindness of you people, I owe everything. I have lived here a quarter of a century, and passed from a young to an old man. Here my children have been born and one is buried. I now leave, not knowing when or whether ever I may return.
“I am called upon to assume the Presidency at a time when eleven of our sovereign states have announced their intention to secede from the Union, when threats of war increase in fierceness from day to day.
“It is a grave duty which I now face. In preparing for it, I have tried to enquire: what great principle or ideal is it that has kept this Union so long together? And I believe that it was not the mere matter of separation of the colonies from the motherland, but that sentiment in the Declaration of Independence which gave liberty to the people of this country and hope to all the world. This sentiment was the fulfillment of an ancient dream, which men have held through all time, that they might one day shake off their chains and find freedom in the brotherhood of life. We gained democracy, and now there is the question of whether it is fit to survive.
“Perhaps we have come to the dreadful day of awakening, and the dream is ended. If so, I am afraid it must be ended forever. I cannot believe that ever again will men have the opportunity we have had. Perhaps we should admit that, and concede that our ideals of liberty and equality are decadent and doomed. I have heard of an eastern monarch who once charged his wise men to invent him a sentence which would be true and appropriate in all times and situations. They presented him the words, ‘And this too shall pass away.’
“That is a comforting thought in time of affliction— ‘And this too shall pass away.’ And yet—let us believe that it is not true! Let us live to prove that we can cultivate the natural world that is about us, and the intellectual and moral world that is within us, so that we may secure an individual, social and political prosperity, whose course shall be forward, and which, while the earth endures, shall not pass away....
“I commend you to the care of the Almighty, as I hope that in your prayers you will remember me.... Good-bye, my friends and neighbors.”
An actor playing the bit part of Kavanagh, an Army officer, said, “Time to pull out, Mr. President. Better get inside the car.”
Lincoln gets into the car as the crowd sings “John Brown’s Body.” Another actor, cast as a brakeman, waved his lantern.
That was when Trout was supposed to blow the whistle, and he did.
As the curtain descended, there was a sob backstage. It wasn’t in the playbook. It was ad lib. It was about beauty. It came from Kilgore Trout.

62
Anything we said at the cast party, the clambake on the beach, was at first hesitant and apologetic, almost as though English were our second language. We were mourning not only Lincoln, but the death of American eloquence.
Another look-alike there was Rosemary Smith, Mask and Wig’s costume mistress, and mother of Frank Smith, its superstar. She resembled Ida Young, grandchild of slaves, who worked for us in Indianapolis when I was little. Ida Young, in combination with my uncle Alex, had as much to do with my upbringing as my parents did.
Nobody was a near double for Uncle Alex. He did not like my writing. I dedicated The Sirens of Titan to him, and Uncle Alex said, “I suppose the young people will like it.” Nobody resembled my aunt Ella Vonnegut Stewart, a first cousin of my father’s, either. She and her husband, Kerfuit, owned a bookstore in Louisville, Kentucky. They did not stock my books because they found my language obscene. So it was back then, when I was starting out.
Among other departed souls whom I would not summon back to life, if I had had the power to do so, but who were represented by doppelgängers: nine of my teachers at Shortridge High School, and Phoebe Hurty, who hired me in high school to write ad copy about teenage clothing for Blocks’ Department Store, and my first wife Jane, and my mother, and my uncle John Rauch, husband to another of Father’s first cousins. Uncle John provided me with a history of my family in America, which I printed in Palm Sunday.
Jane’s unknowing stand-in, a pert young woman who teaches biochemistry at Rhode Island University, over at Kingston, said within my hearing, and apropos of nothing more than that day’s theatrical performance and the setting sun: “I can’t wait to see what’s going to happen next.”
Only the dead had doppelgängers at that party back in 2001. Arthur Garvey Ulm, poet and Resident Secretary of Xanadu, an employee of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, was short and had a big nose, like my war buddy Bernard V. O’Hare.
My wife Jill was among the living, thank goodness, and was there in the flesh, as was Knox Burger, a Cornell classmate of mine. After Western Civilization’s second unsuccessful suicide attempt, Knox became a fiction editor at Collier’s, which published five short stories every week. Knox got me a good literary agent, Colonel Kenneth Littauer, the first pilot to strafe a trench during World War One.
Trout opined, in My Ten Years on Automatic Pilot, incidentally, that we had better start numbering timequakes the same way we numbered World Wars and Super Bowls.
Colonel Littauer sold a dozen or more of my stories, several to Knox, making it possible for me to quit my job with General Electric and move with Jane and our then two kids to Cape Cod as a free-lance writer. When the magazines went bust because of TV, Knox became an editor of paperback originals. He published three books of mine as such: The Sirens of Titan, Canary in a Cathouse, and Mother Night.
Knox got me started, and he kept me going until he could no longer help me. And then Seymour Lawrence came

to my rescue.
Also in the flesh at the clambake were five men half my age who made me want to keep on going in my sunset years because of their interest in my work. They weren’t there to see me. They wanted at long last to meet Kilgore Trout. They were Robert Weide, who in this summer of 1996 is making a movie in Montreal of Mother Night, and Marc Leeds, who wrote and had published a witty encyclopedia of my life and work, and Asa Pieratt and Jerome Klinkowitz, who have kept my bibliography up-to-date and written essays about me as well, and Joe Petro III, numbered like a World War, who taught me how to silk-screen.
My closest business associate, Don Farber, lawyer and agent, was there with his dear wife, Anne. My closest social pal, Sidney Offit, was there. The critic John Leonard was there, and the academicians Peter Reed and Loree Rackstraw, and the photographer Cliff McCarthy, and other kind strangers too numerous to mention.
The professional actors Kevin McCarthy and Nick Nolte were there.
My children and grandchildren weren’t there. That was OK, perfectly understandable. It wasn’t my birthday, and I wasn’t a guest of honor. The heroes that evening were Frank Smith and Kilgore Trout. My kids and my kids’ kids had other fish to fry. Perhaps I should say my kids and my kids’ kids had other lobsters and clams and oysters and potatoes and corn on the cob to steam in seaweed.
Whatever!
Get it right! Remember Uncle Carl Barus, and get it right!

63
This is not a Gothic novel. My late friend Borden Deal, a first-rate southern novelist, so southern he asked his publishers not to send review copies north of the Mason-Dixon line, also wrote Gothic novels under a feminine nom de plume. I asked him for a definition of a Gothic novel. He said, “A young woman goes into an old house and gets her pants scared off.”
Borden and I were in Vienna, Austria, for a congress of PEN, the international writers’ organization founded after World War One, when he told me that. We went on to talk about the German novelist Leopold von Sacher-Masoch, who in print found humiliation and pain so delectable at the end of the previous century. Because of him, modern languages have the word masochism.
Borden not only wrote serious novels and Gothics. He wrote country music. He had his guitar back in his hotel room, and was working, he said, on a song called “I Never Waltzed in Vienna.” I miss him. I want a look-alike for Borden at the clambake, and two luckless fishermen in a little rowboat right offshore, dead ringers for the saints Stanley Laurel and Oliver Hardy.
So be it.
Borden and I mused about novelists such as Masoch and the Marquis de Sade, who had intentionally or accidentally inspired new words. Sadism, of course, is joy while inflicting pain on others. Sadomasochism means getting one’s rocks off while hurting others, while being hurt by others, or while hurting oneself.
Borden said doing without those words nowadays was like trying to talk about life without words for beer or water.
The only contemporary American writer we could think of who had given us a new word, and surely not because he is a famous pervert, which he isn’t, was Joseph Heller. The title of his first novel, Catch-22, is defined this way in my Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary: “A problematic situation for which the only solution is denied by a circumstance inherent in the problem.”
Read the book!
I told Borden what Heller said in an interview when he was asked if he feared death. Heller said he had never experienced a root-canal job. Many people he knew had. From what they told him about it, Heller said, he guessed he, too, could stand one, if he had to.
That was how he felt about death, he said.
That puts me in mind of a scene from a play of George Bernard Shaw’s, his manmade timequake Back to

Methuselah. The whole play is ten hours long! The last time it was performed in its entirety was in 1922, the year I was born.
The scene: Adam and Eve, who have been around for a long time now, are waiting at the gate of their prosperous and peaceful and beautiful farm for the annual visit from their landlord, God. During every previous visit, and there have been hundreds of them by now, they could tell Him only that everything was nice and that they were grateful.
This time, though, Adam and Eve are all keyed up, scared but proud. They have something new they want to talk to God about. So God shows up, genial, big and hale and hearty, like my grandfather the brewer Albert Lieber. He asks if everything is satisfactory, and thinks He knows the answer, since what He has created is as perfect as He can make it.
Adam and Eve, more in love than they have ever been before, tell Him that they like life all right, but that they would like it even better if they could know that it was going to end sometime.
Chicago is a better city than New York because Chicago has alleys. The garbage doesn’t pile up on the sidewalks. Delivery vehicles don’t block main thoroughfares.
The late American novelist Nelson Algren said to the late Chilean novelist José Donoso, when we were all teaching in the Writers’ Workshop at the University of Iowa in 1966: “It must be nice to come from a country that long and narrow.”
You think the ancient Romans were smart? Look at how dumb their numbers were. One theory of why they declined and fell is that their plumbing was lead. The root of our word plumbing is plumbum, the Latin word for “lead.” Lead poisoning makes people stupid and lazy.
What’s your excuse?
I got a sappy letter from a woman a while back. She knew I was sappy, too, which is to say a northern Democrat. She was pregnant, and she wanted to know if it was a mistake to bring an innocent little baby into a world this bad.
I replied that what made being alive almost worthwhile for me was the saints I met, people behaving unselfishly and capably. They turned up in the most unexpected places. Perhaps you, dear reader, are or can become a saint for her sweet child to meet.
I believe in original sin. I also believe in original virtue. Look around!
Xanthippe thought her husband, Socrates, was a fool. Aunt Raye thought Uncle Alex was a fool. Mother thought Father was a fool. My wife thinks I’m a fool.
I’m wild again, beguiled again, a whimpering, simpering child again. Bewitched, bothered, and bewildered am I.
And Kilgore Trout said at the clambake, with Laurel and Hardy in a rowboat only fifty yards offshore, that young people liked movies with a lot of shooting because they showed that dying didn’t hurt at all, that people with guns could be thought of as “free-lance anesthetists.”
He was so happy! He was so popular! He was all dolled up in the tuxedo and boiled shirt and crimson cummerbund and bow tie that had belonged to Zoltan Pepper. I stood behind him in his suite in order to tie the tie for him, just as my big brother had done for me before I myself could tie a bow tie.

There on the beach, whatever Trout said produced laughter and applause. He couldn’t believe it! He said the pyramids and Stonehenge were built in a time of very feeble gravity, when boulders could be tossed around like sofa pillows, and people loved it. They begged for more. He gave them the line from “Kiss Me Again”: “There is no way a beautiful woman can live up to what she looks like for any appreciable length of time. Ting-a-ling?” People told him he was as witty as Oscar Wilde!
Understand, the biggest audience this man had had before the clambake was an artillery battery, when he was a forward spotter in Europe during World War Two.
“Ting-a-ling! If this isn’t nice, what is?” he exclaimed to us all.
I called back to him from the rear of the crowd: “You’ve been sick, Mr. Trout, but now you’re well again, and there’s work to do.”
My lecture agent, Janet Cosby, was there.
At ten o’clock the old, long-out-of-print science fiction writer announced it was his bedtime. There was one last thing he wanted to say to us, to his family. Like a magician seeking a volunteer from the audience, he asked someone to stand beside him and do what he said. I held up my hand. “Me, please, me,” I said.
The crowd fell quiet as I took my place to his right.
“The Universe has expanded so enormously,” he said, “with the exception of the minor glitch it put us through, that light is no longer fast enough to make any trips worth taking in even the most unreasonable lengths of time. Once the fastest thing possible, they say, light now belongs in the graveyard of history, like the Pony Express.
“I now ask this human being brave enough to stand next to me to pick two twinkling points of obsolete light in the sky above us. It doesn’t matter what they are, except that they must twinkle. If they don’t twinkle, they are either planets or satellites. Tonight we are not interested in planets or satellites.”
I picked two points of light maybe ten feet apart. One was Polaris. I have no idea what the other one was. For all I knew, it was Puke, Trout’s star the size of a BB.
“Do they twinkle?” he said. “Yes they do,” I said. “Promise?” he said.
“Cross my heart,” I said.
“Excellent! Ting-a-ling!” he said. “Now then: Whatever heavenly bodies those two glints represent, it is certain that the Universe has become so rarefied that for light to go from one to the other would take thousands or millions of years. Ting-a-ling? But I now ask you to look precisely at one, and then precisely at the other.”
“OK,” I said, “I did it.”
“It took a second, do you think?” he said.
“No more,” I said.
“Even if you’d taken an hour,” he said, “something would have passed between where those two heavenly bodies used to be, at, conservatively speaking, a million times the speed of light.”
“What was it?” I said.
“Your awareness,” he said. “That is a new quality in the Universe, which exists only because there are human beings. Physicists must from now on, when pondering the secrets of the Cosmos, factor in not only energy and matter and time, but something very new and beautiful, which is human awareness.”
Trout paused, ensuring with the ball of his left thumb that his upper dental plate would not slip when he said his last words to us that enchanted evening.
All was well with his teeth. This was his finale: “I have thought of a better word than awareness,” he said. “Let us call it soul.” He paused.
“Ting-a-ling?” he said.

EPILOGUE
My big and only brother Bernard, a widower for twenty-five years, died after prolonged bouts with cancers, without excruciating pain, on the morning of April 25th, 1997, at the age of eighty-two, now four days ago. He was a Senior Research Scientist Emeritus, in the Atmospheric Sciences Research Center of the State University of New York at Albany, and the father of five fine sons.
I was seventy-four. Our sister Alice would have been seventy-nine. At the time of her humbling death at the age of forty-one, I said, “What a wonderful old lady Allie would have been.” No such luck.
We were luckier with Bernard. He died the beloved, sweet, funny, highly intelligent old geezer he deserved to become. He was enraptured at the very end by a collection of sayings of Albert Einstein. Example: “The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the source of all true art and science.” Another: “Physical concepts are free creations of the human mind, and are not, however it may seem, uniquely determined by the external world.”
Most famously, Einstein is reputed to have said, “I shall never believe that God plays dice with the world.” Bernard was himself so open-minded about how the universe might be dealt with that he thought praying would help, possibly, in drastic situations. When his son Terry had cancer of the throat, Bernie, ever the experimentalist, prayed for his recovery. Terry indeed survived.
So it was with silver iodide, too. Bernie wondered if crystals of that substance, so like crystals of frozen water, might not teach supercooled droplets in clouds how to turn to ice, to snow. He tried it. It worked.
He spent the final decade of his professional life attempting to discredit a very old and widely respected paradigm of whence came electrical charges in thunderstorms, and where they went, and what they did and why. He was opposed. The last of the more than one hundred fifty articles he wrote, to be published posthumously, describes experiments that can demonstrate incontrovertibly whether he was right or wrong.
Either way, he could not lose. However the experiments came out, he would have found the results enormously entertaining. Either way, he would have laughed like hell.
He was funnier than I am in conversation. During the Great Depression, I learned as much about jokes while tagging after him as I did from the comedians in movies and on the radio. I was honored that he found me funny, too. It turned out that he had accumulated a small portfolio of my stuff that had amused him. One item was a letter I had written to our uncle Alex when I was twenty-five. At that time, I had published nothing, had a wife and son, and had just come from Chicago to work as a flack for General Electric in Schenectady, New York.
I got that job because Bernie had become a celebrity in the GE Research Laboratory, in association with Irving Langmuir and Vincent Schaefer, for experiments with cloud seeding, and because the company decided to have regular newspaper people handle its publicity. At Bernie’s suggestion, GE hired me away from the Chicago City News Bureau, where I had been a beat reporter. I had worked simultaneously for a master’s degree in anthropology at the University of Chicago.
I thought Uncle Alex knew that Bernie and I were at GE then, and that I was in Publicity. He didn’t know!
And Uncle Alex had seen a syndicated photograph of Bernie, credited to the Schenectady Gazette. He wrote to that paper, saying he was “a wee bit proud” of his nephew and would like a copy of the picture. He enclosed a dollar. The Gazette got the picture from GE, and so forwarded the request to my new employer. My new boss, logically enough, handed it on to me.
I replied as follows on blue GE stationery:

 As you can see, I signed it “Guy Fawkes,” a name infamous in British history.
Uncle Alex was so insulted that he flipped his wig. He took the letter to a lawyer to find out what legal steps he might take to compel an abject apology from someone high in the company, and to make this cost the author his job. He was going to write to the President of GE, telling him he had an employee who did not know the value of a dollar.
Before he could take such steps, though, somebody told him who Guy Fawkes was in history, and where I was, and that the letter was so hilariously grotesque that it had to be a joke from me. He wanted to kill me for making such a fool of him. I don’t think he ever forgave me, although all I intended was that he be tickled pink.
If he had sent my letter to General Electric, demanding spiritual restitution, I would have been fired. I don’t know what would then have become of me and my wife and son. Nor would I ever have come upon the material for my novels Player Piano and Cat’s Cradle, and several short s letter. Bernie on his deathbed gave it to me. Otherwise, it would have been lost forever. But there it is.
Timequake! I am back in 1947 again, having just come to work for General Electric, and a rerun begins. We all have to do again exactly what we did the first time through, for good or ill.
Extenuating circumstance to be mentioned on Judgment Day: We never asked to be born in the first place.
I was the baby of the family. Now I don’t have anybody to show off for anymore.
A woman who knew Bernie for only the last ten days of his life, in the hospice at St. Peter’s Hospital in Albany, described his manners while dying as “courtly” and “elegant.” What a brother!
What a language.

This book is not a book about what is, but a book about what could be. The characters are modeled after persons
as yet unborn, or, perhaps, at this writing, infants.
It is mostly about managers and engineers. At this point in history, 1952 a.d., our lives and freedom depend largely upon the skill and imagination and courage of our managers and engineers, and I hope that God will help them to help us
all stay alive and free.
But this book is about another point in history, when there is no more war, and . . .
CHAPTER ONE
Ilium, New York, is divided into three parts.
In the northwest are the managers and engineers and civil servants and a few professional people; in the northeast are the machines; and in the south, across the Iroquois River, is the area known locally as Homestead, where almost all of the people live.
If the bridge across the Iroquois were dynamited, few daily routines would be disturbed. Not many people on either side have reasons other than curiosity for crossing.
During the war, in hundreds of Iliums over America, managers and engineers learned to get along without their men and women, who went to fight. It was the miracle that won the war - production with almost no manpower. In the patois of the north side of the river, it was the know-how that won the war. Democracy owed its life to know-how.
Ten years after the war - after the men and women had come home, after the riots had been put down, after thousands had been jailed under the antisabotage

laws - Doctor Paul Proteus was petting a cat in his office. He was the most important, brilliant person in Ilium, the manager of the Ilium Works, though only thirty-five. He was tall, thin, nervous, and dark, with the gentle good looks of his long face distorted by dark-rimmed glasses.
He didn't feel important or brilliant at the moment, nor had he for some time. His principle concern just then was that the black cat be contented in its new surroundings.
Those old enough to remember and too old to compete said affectionately that Doctor Proteus looked just as his father had as a young man - and it was generally understood, resentfully in some quarters, that Paul would someday rise almost as high in the organization as his father had. His father, Doctor George Proteus, was at the time of his death the nation's first National Industrial, Commercial, Communications, Foodstuffs, and Resources Director, a position approached in importance only by the presidency of the United States.
As for the Proteus genes' chances of being passed down to yet another generation, there were practically none. Paul's wife, Anita, his secretary during the war, was barren. Ironically as anyone would please, he had married her after she had declared that she was certainly pregnant, following an abandoned office celebration of victory.
"Like that, kitty?" With solicitousness and vicarious pleasure, young Proteus ran a roll of blueprints along the cat's arched back. "Mmmmm-aaaaah - good, eh?" He had spotted her that morning, near the golf course, and had picked her up as a mouser for the plant. Only the night before, a mouse had gnawed through the insulation on a control wire and put buildings 17, 19, and 21 temporarily out of commission.
Paul turned on his intercom set. "Katharine?" "Yes, Doctor Proteus?"
"Katharine, when's my speech going to be typed?"

"I'm doing it now, sir. Ten, fifteen minutes, I promise."
Doctor Katharine Finch was his secretary, and the only woman in the Ilium Works. Actually, she was more a symbol of rank than a real help, although she was useful as a stand-in when Paul was ill or took a notion to leave work early. Only the brass - plant managers and bigger - had secretaries. During the war, the managers and engineers had found that the bulk of secretarial work could be done - as could most lower-echelon jobs - more quickly and efficiently and cheaply by machines. Anita was about to be dismissed when Paul had married her. Now, for instance, Katharine was being annoyingly unmachine-like, dawdling over Paul's speech, and talking to her presumed lover, Doctor Bud Calhoun, at the same time.
Bud, who was manager of the petroleum terminal in Ilium, worked only when shipments came or went by barge or pipeline, and he spent most of his time between these crises - as now - filling Katharine's ears with the euphoria of his Georgia sweet talk.
Paul took the cat in his arms and carried her to the enormous floor-to-ceiling window that comprised one wall. "Lots and lots of mice out there, kitty," he said.
He was showing the cat an old battlefield at peace. Here, in the basin of the river bend, the Mohawks had overpowered the Algonquins, the Dutch the Mohawks, the British the Dutch, the Americans the British. Now, over bones and rotten palings and cannon balls and arrowheads, there lay a triangle of steel and masonry buildings, a half-mile on each side the Illium Works. Where men had once howled and hacked at one another, and fought nip-and-tuck with nature as well, the machines hummed and whirred and clicked, and made parts for baby carriages and bottle caps, motorcycles and refrigerators, television sets and tricycles - the fruits of peace.
Paul raised his eyes above the rooftops of the great triangle to the glare of the sun on the Iroquois River, and beyond - to Homestead, where many of the pioneer names still lived: van Zandt, Cooper, Cortland, Stokes . . .

"Doctor Proteus?" It was Katharine again. "Yes, Katharine."
"It's on again."
"Three in Building 58?"
"Yessir - the light's on again."
"All right - call Doctor Shepherd and find out what he's doing about it." "He's sick today. Remember?"
"Then it's up to me, I guess." He put on his coat, sighed with ennui, picked up the cat, and walked into Katharine's office. "Don't get up, don't get up," he said to Bud, who was stretched out on a couch.
"Who was gonna get up?" said Bud.
Three walls of the room were solid with meters from baseboard to molding, unbroken save for the doors leading into the outer hall and into Paul's office. The fourth wall, as in Paul's office, was a single pane of glass. The meters were identical, the size of cigarette packages, and stacked like masonry, each labeled with a bright brass plate. Each was connected to a group of machines somewhere in the Works. A glowing red jewel called attention to the seventh meter from the bottom, fifth row to the left, on the east wall.
Paul tapped the meter with his finger. "Uh-huh - here we go again: number three in 58 getting rejects, all right." He glanced over the rest of the instruments. "Guess that's all, eh?"
"Just that one."
"Whatch goin' do with thet cat?" said Bud.

Paul snapped his fingers. "Say, I'm glad you asked that. I have a project for you, Bud. I want some sort of signaling device that will tell this cat where she can find a mouse."
"Electronic?"
"I should hope so."
"You'd need some kind of sensin' element thet could smell a mouse." "Or a rat. I want you to work on it while I'm gone."
As Paul walked out to his car in the pale March sunlight, he realized that Bud Calhoun would have a mouse alarm designed - one a cat could understand - by the time he got back to the office. Paul sometimes wondered if he wouldn't have been more content in another period of history, but the rightness of Bud's being alive now was beyond question. Bud's mentality was one that had been remarked upon as being peculiarly American since the nation had been born - the restless, erratic insight and imagination of a gadgeteer. This was the climax, or close to it, of generations of Bud Calhouns, with almost all of American industry integrated into one stupendous Rube Goldberg machine.
Paul stopped by Bud's car, which was parked next to his. Bud had shown off its special features to him several times, and, playfully, Paul put it through its paces. "Let's go," he said to the car.
A whir and a click, and the door flew open. "Hop in," said a tape recording under the dashboard. The starter spun, the engine caught and idled down, and the radio went on.
Gingerly, Paul pressed a button on the steering column. A motor purred, gears grumbled softly, and the two front seats lay down side by side like sleepy lovers. It struck Paul as shockingly like an operating table for horses he had once seen in a veterinary hospital - where the horse was walked alongside the tipped table, lashed

to it, anesthetized, and then toppled into operating position by the gear-driven table top. He could see Katharine Finch sinking, sinking, sinking, as Bud, his hand on the button, crooned. Paul raised the seats with another button. "Goodbye," he said to the car.
The motor stopped, the radio winked off, and the door slammed. "Don't take any wooden nickels," called the car as Paul climbed into his own. "Don't take any wooden nickels, don't take any wooden nickels, don't take any -"
"I won't!"
Bud's car fell silent, apparently at peace.
Paul drove down the broad, clean boulevard that split the plant, and watched the building numbers flash by. A station wagon, honking its horn, and its occupants waving to him, shot past in the opposite direction, playfully zigzagging on the deserted street, heading for the main gate. Paul glanced at his watch. That was the second shift just coming off work. It annoyed him that sophomoric high spirits should be correlated with the kind of young men it took to keep the plant going. Cautiously, he assured himself that when he, Finnerty, and Shepherd had come to work in the Ilium Works thirteen years before, they had been a good bit more adult, less cock-sure, and certainly without the air of belonging to an elite.
Some people, including Paul's famous father, had talked in the old days as though engineers, managers, and scientists were an elite. And when things were building up to the war, it was recognized that American know-how was the only answer to the prospective enemy's vast numbers, and there was talk of deeper, thicker shelters for the possessors of know-how, and of keeping this cream of the population out of the front-line fighting. But not many had taken the idea of an elite to heart. When Paul, Finnerty, and Shepherd had graduated from college, early in the war, they had felt sheepish about not going to fight, and humbled by those who did go. But now this elite business, this assurance of superiority, this sense of rightness about the hierarchy topped by managers and engineers - this was instilled in all college graduates, and there were no bones about it.

Paul felt better when he got into Building 58, a long, narrow structure four blocks long. It was a pet of his. He'd been told to have the north end of the building torn down and replaced, and he'd talked Headquarters out of it. The north end was the oldest building in the plant, and Paul had saved it - because of its historical interest to visitors, he'd told Headquarters. But he discouraged and disliked visitors, and he'd really saved Building 58's north end for himself. It was the original machine shop set up by Edison in 1886, the same year in which he opened another in Schenectady, and visiting it took the edge off Paul's periods of depression. It was a vote of confidence from the past, he thought - where the past admitted how humble and shoddy it had been, where one could look from the old to the new and see that mankind really had come a long way. Paul needed that reassurance from time to time.
Objectively, Paul tried to tell himself, things really were better than ever. For once, after the great bloodbath of the war, the world really was cleared of unnatural terrors - mass starvation, mass imprisonment, mass torture, mass murder. Objectively, know-how and world law were getting their long-awaited chance to turn earth into an altogether pleasant and convenient place in which to sweat out Judgment Day.
Paul wished he had gone to the front, and heard the senseless tumult and thunder, and seen the wounded and dead, and maybe got a piece of shrapnel through his leg. Maybe he'd be able to understand then how good everything now was by comparison, to see what seemed so clear to others - that what he was doing, had done, and would do as a manager and engineer was vital, above reproach, and had, in fact, brought on a golden age. Of late, his job, the system, and organizational politics had left him variously annoyed, bored, or queasy.
He stood in the old part of Building 58, which was now filled with welding machines and a bank of insulation braiders. It soothed him to look up at the wooden rafters, uneven with ancient adze marks beneath flaking calcimine, and at the dull walls of brick soft enough for men - God knows how long ago - to carve their initials in: "KTM," "DG," "GP," "BDH," "HB," "NNS." Paul imagined for a moment - as he often imagined on visits to Building 58 - that he was Edison,

standing on the threshold of a solitary brick building on the banks of the Iroquois, with the upstate winter slashing through the broomcorn outside. The rafters still bore the marks of what Edison had done with the lonely brick barn: bolt holes showed where overhead shafts had once carried power to a forest of belts, and the wood-block floor was black with the oil and scarred by the feet of the crude machines the belts had spun.
On his office wall, Paul had a picture of the shop as it had been in the beginning. All of the employees, most of them recruited from surrounding farms, had stood shoulder to shoulder amid the crude apparatus for the photograph, almost fierce with dignity and pride, ridiculous in stiff collars and derbies. The photographer had apparently been accustomed to taking pictures of athletic teams and fraternal organizations, for the picture had the atmosphere, after the fashion of the day, of both. In each face was a defiant promise of physical strength, and at the same time, there was the attitude of a secret order, above and apart from society by virtue of participating in important and moving rites the laity could only guess about - and guess wrong. The pride in strength and important mystery showed no less in the eyes of the sweepers than in those of the machinists and inspectors, and in those of the foreman, who alone was without a lunchbox.
A buzzer sounded, and Paul stepped to one side of the aisle as the sweeping machine rattled by on its rails, whooshing up a cloud of dust with spinning brooms, and sucking up the cloud with a voracious snout. The cat in Paul's arms clawed up threads from his suit and hissed at the machine.
Paul's eyes began to nag him with a prickling sensation, and he realized that he'd been gazing into the glare and sputter of the welding machines without protecting his eyes. He clipped dark glasses over his spectacles, and strode through the antiseptic smell of ozone toward lathe group three, which was in the center of the building, in the new part.
He paused for a moment by the last welding-machine group, and wished Edison could be with him to see it. The old man would have been enchanted. Two steel plates were stripped from a pile, sent rattling down a chute; were seized by

mechanical hands and thrust under the welding machine. The welding heads dropped, sputtered, and rose. A battery of electric eyes balefully studied the union of the two plates, signaled a meter in Katharine's office that all was well with welding-machine group five in Building 58, and the welded plates skittered down another chute into the jaws of the punch-press group in the basement. Every seventeen seconds, each of the twelve machines in the group completed the cycle.
Looking the length of Building 58, Paul had the impression of a great gymnasium, where countless squads practiced precision calisthenics - bobbing, spinning, leaping, thrusting, waving. . . . This much of the new era Paul loved: the machines themselves were entertaining and delightful.
Cursorily, he opened the control box for the welding-machine group, and saw that the machines were set to run for three more days. After that, they would shut down automatically until Paul received new orders from headquarters and relayed them to Doctor Lawson Shepherd, who was second-in-command and responsible for Buildings 53 through 71. Shepherd, who was sick today, would then set the controls for a new batch of refrigerator backs - however many backs EPICAC, a computing machine in Carlsbad Caverns, felt the economy could absorb.
Paul, calming the anxious cat with his long, slender fingers, wondered indifferently if Shepherd really was sick. Probably not. More likely, he was seeing important people, trying to get transferred out from under Paul.
Shepherd, Paul, and Edward Finnerty had all come to Ilium together as youngsters. Now Finnerty had moved on to bigger things in Washington; Paul had been given the highest job in Ilium; and Shepherd, sulky and carping, but efficient, had, in his own eyes, been humiliated by being named second-in-command to Paul. Transfers were an upper-echelon decision, and Paul hoped to God that Shepherd got one.
Paul arrived at lathe group three, the troublemaker he had come to see. He had been agitating a long time for permission to junk the group, without much luck. The lathes were of the old type, built originally to be controlled by men, and

adapted during the war, clumsily, to the new techniques. The accuracy was going out of them, and, as the meter in Katharine's office had pointed out, rejects were showing up in quantity. Paul was willing to bet that the lathe group was ten per cent as wasteful as it had been in the days of human control and mountainous scrap heaps.
The group, five ranks of ten machines each, swept their tools in unison across steel bars, kicked out finished shafts onto continuous belts, stopped while raw bars dropped between their chucks and tailstocks, clamped down, and swept their tools across the bars, kicked out the finished shafts onto . . .
Paul unlocked the box containing the tape recording that controlled them all. The tape was a small loop that fed continuously between magnetic pickups. On it were recorded the movements of a master machinist turning out a shaft for a fractional horsepower motor. Paul counted back - eleven, twelve, thirteen years ago, he'd been in on the making of the tape, the master from which this one had been made. . . .
He and Finnerty and Shepherd, with the ink hardly dry on their doctorates, had been sent to one of the machine shops to make the recording. The foreman had pointed out his best man - what was his name? - and, joking with the puzzled machinist, the three bright young men had hooked up the recording apparatus to the lathe controls. Hertz! That had been the machinist's name - Rudy Hertz, an old- timer, who had been about ready to retire. Paul remembered the name now, and remembered the deference the old man had shown the bright young men.
Afterward, they'd got Rudy's foreman to let him off, and, in a boisterous, whimsical spirit of industrial democracy, they'd taken him across the street for a beer. Rudy hadn't understood quite what the recording instruments were all about, but what he had understood, he'd liked: that he, out of thousands of machinists, had been chosen to have his motions immortalized on tape.
And here, now, this little loop in the box before Paul, here was Rudy as Rudy had been to his machine that afternoon - Rudy, the turner-on of power, the setter

of speeds, the controller of the cutting tool. This was the essence of Rudy as far as his machine was concerned, as far as the economy was concerned, as far as the war effort had been concerned. The tape was the essence distilled from the small, polite man with the big hands and black fingernails; from the man who thought the world could be saved if everyone read a verse from the Bible every night; from the man who adored a collie for want of children; from the man who . . . What else had Rudy said that afternoon? Paul supposed the old man was dead now - or in his second childhood in Homestead.
Now, by switching in lathes on a master panel and feeding them signals from the tape, Paul could make the essence of Rudy Hertz produce one, ten, a hundred, or a thousand of the shafts.
Paul closed the box's door. The tape seemed in good condition, and so were the pickups. Everything, in fact, was as ship-shape as could be expected, considering the antiquity of the machines. There were just going to have to be rejects, and that was that. The whole group belonged in a museum, not a production setup. Even the box was archaic - a vaultlike affair bolted to the floor, with a steel door and lock. At the time of the riots, right after the war, the master tapes had all been locked up in this way. Now, with the antisabotage laws as rigidly enforced as they were, the only protection the controls needed was from dust, cockroaches, and mice.
At the door, in the old part of the building once more, Paul paused for a moment to listen to the music of Building 58. He had had it in the back of his mind for years to get a composer to do something with it - the Building 58 Suite. It was wild and Latin music, hectic rhythms, fading in and out of phase, kaleidoscopic sound. He tried to separate and identify the themes. There! The lathe groups, the tenors: "Furrazz-ow-ow-ow-ow-ow-ak! ting! Furr-azz-ow-ow . . ." The welders, the baritones: "Vaaaaaaa-zuzip! Vaaaaaaa-zuzip!" And, with the basement as a resonating chamber, the punch presses, the basses: "Aw-grumph! tonka-tonka. Aw- grump! tonka-tonka . . ." It was exciting music, and Paul, flushed, his vague anxieties gone, gave himself over to it.

Out of the corner of his eye, a crazy, spinning movement caught his fancy, and he turned in his delight to watch a cluster of miniature maypoles braid bright cloth insulation about a black snake of cable. A thousand little dancers whirled about one another at incredible speeds, pirouetting, dodging one another, unerringly building their snug snare about the cable. Paul laughed at the wonderful machines, and had to look away to keep from getting dizzy. In the old days, when women had watched over the machines, some of the more simple-hearted had been found sitting rigidly at their posts, staring, long after quitting time.
His gaze fell upon an asymmetrical heart scratched into the old brick, and in its center, "K.L.-M.W.", and the date, "1931." K.L. and M.W. had taken a liking to one another, then, in the same year that Edison had died. Paul thought again of the fun of showing the old man around Building 58, and suddenly realized that most of the machinery would be old stuff, even to Edison. The braiders, the welders, the punch presses, the lathes, the conveyers - everything in sight, almost, had been around in Edison's time. The basic parts of the automatic controls, too, and the electric eyes and other elements that did and did better what human senses had once done for industry - all were familiar enough in scientific circles even in the nineteen-twenties. All that was new was the combination of these elements. Paul reminded himself to bring that out in his talk at the Country Club that night.
The cat arched her back and clawed at Paul's suit again. The sweeper was snuffling down the aisle toward them once more. It sounded its warning buzzer, and Paul stepped out of its path. The cat hissed and spat, suddenly raked Paul's hand with her claws, and jumped. With a bouncing, stiff-legged gait, she fled before the sweeper. Snatching, flashing, crashing, shrieking machines kept her in the middle of the aisle, yards ahead of the sweeper's whooshing brooms. Paul looked frantically for the switch that would stop the sweeper, but before he found it, the cat made a stand. She faced the oncoming sweeper, her needle-like teeth bared, the tip of her tail snapping back and forth. The flash of a welder went off inches from her eyes, and the sweeper gobbled her up and hurled her squalling and scratching into its galvanized tin belly.
Winded after a quarter-mile run through the length of the building, Paul caught

the sweeper just as it reached a chute. It gagged, and spat the cat down the chute and into a freight car outside. When Paul got outside, the cat had scrambled up the side of the freight car, tumbled to the ground, and was desperately clawing her way up a fence.
"No, kitty, no!" cried Paul.
The cat hit the alarm wire on the fence, and sirens screamed from the gate house. In the next second the cat hit the charged wires atop the fence. A pop, a green flash, and the cat sailed high over the top strand as though thrown. She dropped to the asphalt - dead and smoking, but outside.
An armored car, its turret nervously jerking its brace of machine guns this way and that, grumbled to a stop by the small corpse. The turret hatch clanged open, and a plant guard cautiously raised his head. "Everything all right, sir?"
"Turn off the sirens. Nothing but a cat on the fence." Paul knelt, and looked at the cat through the mesh of the fence, frightfully upset. "Pick up the cat and take her to my office."
"Beg your pardon, sir?"
"The cat - I want her taken to my office." "She's dead, sir."
"You heard me."
"Yessir."
Paul was in the depths again as he climbed into his car in front of Building 58. There was nothing in sight to divert him, nothing but asphalt, a perspective of blank, numbered façades, and wisps of cold cirrus clouds in a strip of blue sky. Paul glimpsed the only life visible through a narrow canyon between Buildings 57 and 59, a canyon that opened onto the river and revealed a bank of gray porches in

Homestead. On the topmost porch an old man rocked in a patch of sunlight. A child leaned over the railing and launched a square of paper in a lazy, oscillating course to the river's edge. The youngster looked up from the paper to meet Paul's gaze. The old man stopped rocking and looked, too, at the curiosity, a living thing in the Ilium Works.
As Paul passed Katharine Finch's desk on his way into his office, she held out his typewritten speech. "That's very good, what you said about the Second Industrial Revolution," she said.
"Old, old stuff."
"It seemed very fresh to me - I mean that part where you say how the First Industrial Revolution devalued muscle work, then the second one devalued routine mental work. I was fascinated."
"Norbert Wiener, a mathematician, said all that way back in the nineteen- forties. It's fresh to you because you're too young to know anything but the way things are now."
"Actually, it is kind of incredible that things were ever any other way, isn't it? It was so ridiculous to have people stuck in one place all day, just using their senses, then a reflex, using their senses, then a reflex, and not really thinking at all."
"Expensive," said Paul, "and about as reliable as a putty ruler. You can imagine what the scrap heap looked like, and what hell it was to be a service manager in those days. Hangovers, family squabbles, resentments against the boss, debts, the war - every kind of human trouble was likely to show up in a product one way or another." He smiled. "And happiness, too. I can remember when we had to allow for holidays, especially around Christmas. There wasn't anything to do but take it. The reject rate would start climbing around the fifth of December, and up and up it'd go until Christmas. Then the holiday, then a horrible reject rate; then New Year's, then a ghastly reject level. Then things would taper down to normal - which was plenty bad enough - by January fifteenth or so. We used to have to figure in things like that in pricing a product."

"Do you suppose there'll be a Third Industrial Revolution?"
Paul paused in his office doorway. "A third one? What would that be like?"
"I don't know exactly. The first and second ones must have been sort of inconceivable at one time."
"To the people who were going to be replaced by machines, maybe. A third one, eh? In a way, I guess the third one's been going on for some time, if you mean thinking machines. That would be the third revolution, I guess - machines that devaluate human thinking. Some of the big computers like EPICAC do that all right, in specialized fields."
"Uh-huh," said Katharine thoughtfully. She rattled a pencil between her teeth. "First the muscle work, then the routine work, then, maybe, the real brainwork."
"I hope I'm not around long enough to see that final step. Speaking of industrial revolutions, where's Bud?"
"A barge was coming in, so he had to get back to work. He left this for you." She handed him a crumpled laundry slip with Bud's name on it.
Paul turned the slip over and found, as he had expected, a circuit diagram for a mouse detector and alarm system that might very well work. "Astonishing mind, Katharine."
She nodded uncertainly.
Paul closed his door, locked it silently, and got a bottle from under papers in a bottom drawer. He blacked out for an instant under the gloriously hot impact of a gulp of whisky. He hid the bottle again, his eyes watering.
"Doctor Proteus, your wife is on the phone," said Katharine on the intercom.

"Proteus speaking." He started to sit, and was distressed to find a small wicker basket in his chair, containing a dead black cat.
"This is me, darling, Anita."
"Hello, hello, hello." He set the basket on the floor gently, and sank into his chair. "How are you, sweetheart?" he said absently. His mind was still on the cat.
"All set to have a good time tonight?" It was a theatrical contralto, knowing and passionate: Ilium's Lady of the Manor speaking.
"Been jumpy all day about the talk."
"Then you'll do it brilliantly, darling. You'll get to Pittsburgh yet. I haven't the slightest doubt about that, Paul, not the slightest. Just wait until Kroner and Baer hear you tonight."
"Kroner and Baer accepted, did they?" These two were manager and chief engineer, respectively, of the entire Eastern Division, of which the Ilium Works was one small part. It was Kroner and Baer who would decide who was to get the most important job in their division, a job left vacant two weeks ago by death - the managership of the Pittsburgh Works. "How gay can a party get?"
"Well, if you don't like that, I have some news you will like. There's going to be another very special guest."
"Hi ho."
"And you have to go to Homestead for some Irish whisky for him. The club hasn't got any."
"Finnerty! Ed Finnerty!"
"Yes, Finnerty. He called this afternoon and was very specific about your getting some Irish for him. He's on his way from Washington to Chicago, and he's

going to stop off here."
"How long has it been, Anita? Five, six years?"
"Not since before you got to be manager. That long." She was hale, enthusiastic about Finnerty's coming. It annoyed Paul, because he knew very well that she didn't care for Finnerty. She was crowing, not because she was fond of Finnerty but because she enjoyed the ritual attitudes of friendships, of which she had none. Also, since he'd left Ilium, Ed Finnerty had become a man of consequence, a member of the National Industrial Planning Board; and this fact no doubt dulled her recollections of contretemps with Finnerty in the past.
"You're right about that being good news, Anita. It's wonderful. Takes the edge off Kroner and Baer."
"Now, you're going to be nice to them, too."
"Oh yes. Pittsburgh, here we come."
"If I tell you something for your own good, promise not to get mad?" "No."
"All right, I'll tell you anyway. Amy Halporn said this morning she'd heard something about you and Pittsburgh. Her husband was with Kroner today, and Kroner had the impression that you didn't want to go to Pittsburgh."
"How does he want me to tell him - in Esperanto? I've told him I wanted the job a dozen different ways in English."
"Apparently Kroner doesn't feel you really mean it. You've been too subtle and modest, darling."
"Kroner's a bright one, all right."

"How do you mean?"
"I mean he's got more insight into me than I do." "You mean you don't want the Pittsburgh job?"
"I'm not sure. He apparently knew that before I did." "You're tired, darling."
"I guess."
"You need a drink. Come home early."
"All right."
"I love you, Paul."
"I love you, Anita. Goodbye."
Anita had the mechanics of marriage down pat, even to the subtlest conventions. If her approach was disturbingly rational, systematic, she was thorough enough to turn out a creditable counterfeit of warmth. Paul could only suspect that her feelings were shallow - and perhaps that suspicion was part of what he was beginning to think of as his sickness.
His head was down, his eyes closed, when he hung up. When he opened his eyes, he was looking at the dead cat in the basket.
"Katharine!"
"Yessir."
"Will you have somebody bury this cat."
"We wondered what you wanted to do with it."

"God knows what I had in mind." He looked at the corpse and shook his head. "God knows. Maybe a Christian burial; maybe I hoped she'd come around. Get rid of it right away, would you?"
He stopped by Katharine's desk on his way home and told her not to worry about the glowing jewel on the seventh meter from the bottom, fifth row from the left, on the east wall.
"Beyond help," he said. Lathe group three, Building 58, had been good in its day, but was showing wear and becoming a misfit in the slick, streamlined setup, where there was no place for erratic behavior. "Basically, it wasn't built for the job it's doing anyway. I look for the buzzer to go off any day now, and that'll be the end."
In each meter box, in addition to the instrument, the jewel, and the warning lamp, was a buzzer. The buzzer was the signal for a unit's complete breakdown.
CHAPTER TWO
The Shah of Bratpuhr, spiritual leader of 6,000,000 members of the Kolhouri sect, wizened and wise and dark as cocoa, encrusted with gold brocade and constellations of twinkling gems, sank deep into the royal-blue cushions of the limousine - like a priceless brooch in its gift box.
On the other side of the limousine's rear seat sat Doctor Ewing J. Halyard, of the United States Department of State, a heavy, florid, urbane gentleman of forty. He wore a flowing sandy mustache, a colored shirt, a boutonniere, and a waistcoat

contrasting with his dark suit, and wore them with such poise that one was sure he'd just come from a distinguished company where everyone dressed in this manner. The fact was that only Doctor Halyard did. And he got away with it beautifully.
Between them, nervous, grinning, young, and forever apologetic for his own lack of éclat or power, was Khashdrahr Miasma, the interpreter, and nephew of the Shah, who had learned English from a tutor, but had never before been outside of the Shah's palace.
"Khabu?" said the Shah in his high, frail voice.
Halyard had been with the Shah for three days now and was able to understand, without Khashdrahr's help, five of the Shah's expressions. "Khabu" meant "where?" "Siki" meant "what?" "Akka sahn" meant "why?" "Brahous brahouna, houna saki" was a combination of blessing and thanks, and Sumklish was the sacred Kolhouri drink which Khashdrahr carried in a hip flask for the Shah.
The Shah had left his military and spiritual fastness in the mountains to see what he could learn in the most powerful nation on earth for the good of his people. Doctor Halyard was his guide and host.
"Khabu?" said the Shah again, peering out at the city.
"The Shah wishes to know, please, where we are now," said Khashdrahr.
"I know," said Halyard, smiling wanly. It had been khabu and siki and akka sahn until he was half out of his mind. He leaned forward. "Ilium, New York, your highness. We are about to cross the Iroquois River, which divides the town in two. Over there on the opposite bank is the Ilium Works."
The limousine came to a halt by the end of the bridge, where a large work crew was filling a small chuckhole. The crew had opened a lane for an old Plymouth with a broken headlight, which was coming through from the north side of the river. The limousine waited for the Plymouth to get through, and then proceeded.

The Shah turned to stare at the group through the back window, and then spoke at length.
Doctor Halyard smiled and nodded appreciatively, and awaited a translation.
"The Shah," said Khashdrahr, "he would like, please, to know who owns these slaves we see all the way up from New York City."
"Not slaves," said Halyard, chuckling patronizingly. "Citizens, employed by government. They have same rights as other citizens - free speech, freedom of worship, the right to vote. Before the war, they worked in the Ilium Works, controlling machines, but now machines control themselves much better."
"Aha!" said the Shah, after Khashdrahr had translated.
"Less waste, much better products, cheaper products with automatic control." "Aha!"
"And any man who cannot support himself by doing a job better than a machine is employed by the government, either in the Army or the Reconstruction and Reclamation Corps."
"Aha! Khabu bonanza-pak?"
"Eh?"
"He says, 'Where does the money come from to pay them?' " said Khashdrahr.
"Oh. From taxes on the machines, and taxes on personal incomes. Then the Army and the Reconstruction and Reclamation Corps people put their money back into the system for more products for better living."
"Aha!"

Doctor Halyard, a dutiful man with a bad conscience about the size of his expense accounts, went on explaining America, though he knew very little was getting through. He told the Shah that advances had been most profound in purely industrial communities, where the bulk of the population - as in Ilium - had made its living tending machines in one way or another. In New York City, for instance, there were many skills difficult or uneconomical to mechanize, and the advances hadn't liberated as high a percentage of people from production.
"Kuppo!" said the Shah, shaking his head.
Khashdrahr blushed, and translated uneasily, apologetically. "Shah says,
'Communism.' "
"No Kuppo!" said Halyard vehemently. "The government does not own the machines. They simply tax that part of industry's income that once went into labor, and redistribute it. Industry is privately owned and managed, and co-ordinated - to prevent the waste of competition - by a committee of leaders from private industry, not politicians. By eliminating human error through machinery, and needless competition through organization, we've raised the standard of living of the average man immensely."
Khashdrahr stopped translating and frowned perplexedly. "Please, this average man, there is no equivalent in our language, I'm afraid."
"You know," said Halyard, "the ordinary man, like, well, anybody - those men working back on the bridge, the man in that old car we passed. The little man, not brilliant but a good-hearted, plain, ordinary, everyday kind of person."
Khashdrahr translated.
"Aha," said the Shah, nodding, "Takaru." "What did he say?"
"Takaru," said Khashdrahr. "Slave."

"No Takaru," said Halyard, speaking directly to the Shah. "Ci-ti-zen." "Ahhhhh," said the Shah. "Ci-ti-zen." He grinned happily. "Takaru - citizen.
Citizen - Takaru."
"No Takaru!" said Halyard.
Khashdrahr shrugged. "In the Shah's land are only the Elite and the Takaru."
Halyard's ulcer gave him a twinge, the ulcer that had grown in size and authority over the years of his career as an interpreter of America to provincial and ignorant notables from the backwaters of civilization.
The limousine came to a stop again, and the driver honked his horn at a crew of Reconstruction and Reclamation Corpsmen. They had left their wheelbarrows blocking the road, and were throwing rocks at a squirrel on a branch a hundred feet overhead.
Halyard rolled down his window. "Get these damn wheelbarrows out of the way!" he shouted.
"Ci-ti-zen!" piped the Shah, smiling modestly at his newly acquired bilinguality.
"Drop dead," called one of the rock throwers. Reluctantly, surlily, he came down to the road and moved two wheelbarrows very slowly, studying the car and its occupants as he did it. He stepped to one side.
"Thanks! It's about time!" said Halyard as the limousine eased past the man.
"You're welcome, Doc," said the man, and he spat in Halyard's face.
Halyard sputtered, manfully regained his poise, and wiped his face. "Isolated incident," he said bitterly.

"Takaru yamu brouha, pu dinka bu," said the Shah sympathetically.
"The Shah," said Khashdrahr gravely, "he says it is the same with Takaru
everywhere since the war."
"No Takaru," said Halyard apathetically, and let it go. "Sumklish," sighed the Shah.
Khashdrahr handed him the flask of sacred liquor.
CHAPTER THREE
Doctor Paul Proteus, the man with the highest income in Ilium, drove his cheap and old Plymouth across the bridge to Homestead. He had had the car at the time of the riots, and among the bits of junk in the glove compartment - match cards, registration, flashlight, and face tissues - was the rusty pistol he had been issued then. Having a pistol where some unauthorized person might get at it was very much against the law. Even members of the huge standing army did without firearms until they'd disembarked for occupation duty overseas. Only the police and plant guards were armed. Paul didn't want the pistol but was forever forgetting to turn it in. Over the years, as it had accumulated a patina of rust, he'd come to regard it as a harmless antique. The glove compartment wouldn't lock, so Paul covered the pistol with tissues.
The engine wasn't working properly, now and then hesitating, catching again, slowing suddenly, catching again. His other cars, a new station wagon and a very

expensive sedan, were at home, as he put it, for Anita. Neither of the good cars had ever been in Homestead, and neither had Anita for many years. Anita never needled him about his devotion to the old car, though she did seem to think some sort of explanation to others was in order. He had overheard her telling visitors that he had had it rebuilt in such a way that it was far better mechanically than what was coming off the automatic assembly lines at Detroit - which simply wasn't true. Nor was it logical that a man with so special a car would put off and put off having the broken left headlamp fixed. And he wondered how she might have explained, had she known, that he kept a leather jacket in the trunk, and that he exchanged his coat for this and took off his necktie before crossing the Iroquois. It was a trip he made only when he had to - for, say, a bottle of Irish whisky for one of the few persons he had ever felt close to.
He came to a stop at the Homestead end of the bridge. About forty men, leaning on crowbars, picks, and shovels, blocked the way, smoking, talking, milling about something in the middle of the pavement. They looked around at Paul with an air of sheepishness and, as though there were nothing but time in the world, they moved slowly to the sides of the bridge, leaving an alley barely wide enough for Paul's car. As they separated, Paul saw what it was they had been standing around. A small man was kneeling beside a chuckhole perhaps two feet in diameter, patting a fresh fill of tar and gravel with the flat of his shovel.
Importantly, the man waved for Paul to go around the patch, not over it. The others fell silent, and watched to make sure that Paul did go around it.
"Hey, Mac, your headlamp's busted," shouted one of the men. The others joined in, chorusing the message earnestly.
Paul nodded his thanks. His skin began to itch, as though he had suddenly become unclean. These were members of the Reconstruction and Reclamation Corps, in their own estimate the "Reeks and Wrecks." Those who couldn't compete economically with machines had their choice, if they had no source of income, of the Army or the Reconstruction and Reclamation Corps. The soldiers, with their hollowness hidden beneath twinkling buttons and buckles, crisp serge,

and glossy leather, didn't depress Paul nearly as much as the Reeks and Wrecks did.
He eased through the work crew, past a black government limousine, and into Homestead.
A saloon was close to the end of the bridge. Paul had to park his car a half- block away, for another crew was flushing out the storm sewers with an opened fire hydrant. This seemed to be a favorite undertaking. Whenever he had come to Homestead when the temperature had been above freezing, he'd found a hydrant going.
One big man, with an air of proprietorship, kept his hands on the wrench that controlled the flow. Another stood by as second-in-command of the water. All around them, and along the course of the water to the sewer mouth, a crowd stood watching. A dirty little boy caught a scrap of paper skittering along the sidewalk, fashioned it into a crude boat, and launched it in the gutter. All eyes followed the craft with interest, seeming to wish it luck as it shot perilous rapids, as it snagged on a twig, spun free, shot into the swift, deep main flow, mounted a crest for a triumphant instant, and plunged into the sewer.
"Uh!" grunted a man standing by Paul, as though he had been aboard the boat.
Paul worked his way through the crowd, which was continuous with the clientele of the saloon, and got to within one rank of the bar. His back was against an old player piano. No one seemed to have recognized him. It would have been surprising if someone had, for, in line with policy, he kept pretty much to his own side of the river and never permitted his name or picture to appear in the Ilium Star-Tribune.
Around the bar were old men, pensioners, too old for the Army or the Reeks and Wrecks. Each had before him a headless beer in a glass whose rim was opaqued by hours of slow, thoughtful sipping. These oldsters probably arrived early and left late, and any other business had to be done over their heads. On the screen of the television set behind the bar, a large earth mother of a woman, her

voice shut off by the volume knob, beamed, moved her lips excitedly, and broke eggs into a mixing bowl. The old men watched, occasionally clicking their dentures or licking their lips.
"Excuse me," said Paul self-consciously.
No one made a move to let him get to the bar. A fat, whitening collie, curled beneath the barstool of an old man blocking Paul's way, showed its toothless gums and growled fuzzily.
Futilely, Paul waved his hand for the bartender's attention. As he shifted from one foot to the other, he recalled the fully mechanized saloon he, Finnerty, and Shepherd had designed when they'd been playful young engineers. To their surprise, the owner of a restaurant chain had been interested enough to give the idea a try. They'd set up the experimental unit about five doors down from where Paul now stood, with coin machines and endless belts to do the serving, with germicidal lamps cleaning the air, with uniform, healthful light, with continuous soft music from a tape recorder, with seats scientifically designed by an anthropologist to give the average man the absolute maximum in comfort.
The first day had been a sensation, with a waiting line extending blocks. Within a week of the opening, curiosity had been satisfied, and it was a boom day when five customers stopped in. Then this place had opened up almost next door, with a dust-and-germ trap of a Victorian bar, bad light, poor ventilation, and an unsanitary, inefficient, and probably dishonest bartender. It was an immediate and unflagging success.
He caught the bartender's eye at last. When the bartender saw Paul, he dropped his role of high-handed supervisor of morals and settler of arguments and became an obsequious host, like the bartender at the Country Club. Paul was afraid for a moment that he'd been recognized. But when the bartender failed to call him by name, he supposed that only his class had been recognized.
There were a few men in Homestead - like this bartender, the police and

firemen, professional athletes, cab drivers, specially skilled artisans - who hadn't been displaced by machines. They lived among those who had been displaced, but they were aloof and often rude and overbearing with the mass. They felt a camaraderie with the engineers and managers across the river, a feeling that wasn't, incidentally, reciprocated. The general feeling across the river was that these persons weren't too bright to be replaced by machines; they were simply in activities where machines weren't economical. In short, their feelings of superiority were unjustified.
Now, the bartender had sensed that Paul was a personage, and he made a show of letting everyone else go to hell while he gave service to Paul. The others noticed, and turned to stare at the privileged newcomer.
Paul ordered the bottle of Irish in a quiet voice, and tried to become inconspicuous by bending over and petting the aged collie. The dog barked, and its owner turned on his barstool to confront Paul. The old man was as toothless as the dog. Paul's first impression was of red gums and huge hands - as though everything were sapped of color and strength but these.
"He wouldn't hurt nobody," said the old man apologetically. "Just kind of edgy about being old and blind, and never sure of what's going on, is all." He ran his big hands along the dog's fat sides. "He's a good old dog." He looked thoughtfully at Paul. "Say, I bet I know you."
Paul looked anxiously after the bartender, who had disappeared into the cellar after the whisky. "Really? I've been in here once or twice before."
"No, not here," said the old man loudly. "The plant, the plant. You're young Doctor Proteus."
A lot of people heard, and those closest to the two studied Paul with disturbing candor, and fell silent in order to hear whatever was being said.
The old man was apparently quite deaf, for his voice was erratically loud, then soft. "Don't recognize my face, Doctor?" He wasn't mocking, he was frankly

admiring, and proud that he could prove himself on speaking terms with this distinguished man.
Paul colored. "I can't say I remember. The old welding shop, was it?"
The old man swept his hand over his face deprecatingly. "Aaaah, not enough left of the old face for my best friend to recognize," he said good-humoredly. He thrust out his hands, palms up. "But look at those, Doctor. Good as ever, and there's not two like them anywhere. You said so yourself."
"Hertz," said Paul. "You're Rudy Hertz."
Rudy laughed, and looked about the room triumphantly, as though to say, "See, by God, Rudy Hertz does know Doctor Proteus, and Proteus knows Hertz! How many of you can say that?"
"And this is the dog you were telling me about - ten, fifteen years ago?" "Son of the dog, Doctor." He laughed. "I wasn't no pup then, though, was I?" "You were a damn fine machinist, Rudy."
"I say so myself. Knowing that, knowing smart men like you say that about Rudy, that means a lot. It's about all I got, you know, Doctor? That and the dog." Rudy shook the arm of the man next to him, a short, heavy, seemingly soft man, middle-aged, with a homely, round face. His eyes were magnified and fogged by extremely thick glasses. "Hear what Doctor Proteus here said about me?" Rudy gestured at Paul. "Smartest man in Ilium says that about Rudy. Maybe he's the smartest man in the country."
Paul wished to God the bartender would hurry up. The man Rudy had shaken was now studying Paul sullenly. Paul glanced quickly about the room and saw hostility all around him.
Addled Rudy Hertz thought he was doing a handsome thing by Paul, showing

him off to the crowd. Rudy was senile, remembering only his prime, incapable of remembering or understanding what had followed his retirement. . . .
But these others, these men in their thirties, forties, and fifties - they knew. The youngsters in the booth, the two soldiers and three girls, they were like Katharine Finch. They couldn't remember when things had been different, could hardly make sense of what had been, though they didn't necessarily like what was. But these others who stared now, they remembered. They had been the rioters, the smashers of machines. There was no threat of violence in their looks now, but there was resentment, a wish to let him know that he had intruded where he was not liked.
And still the bartender did not return. Paul limited his field of vision to Rudy, ignoring the rest. The man with thick glasses, whom Rudy had invited to admire Paul, continued to stare.
Paul talked inanely now about the dog, about Rudy's remarkable state of preservation. He was helplessly aware that he was hamming it up, proving to anyone who might still have doubts that he was indeed an insincere ass.
"Let's drink to old times!" said Rudy, raising his glass. He didn't seem to notice that silence greeted his proposal, and that he drank alone. He made clucking noises with his tongue, and winked in fond reminiscence, and drained his glass with a flourish. He banged it on the bar.
Paul, smiling glassily, decided to say nothing more, since anything more would be the wrong thing. He folded his arms and leaned against the keyboard of the player piano. In the silence of the saloon, a faint discord came from the piano, hummed to nothingness.
"Let's drink to our sons," said the man with thick glasses suddenly. His voice was surprisingly high for so resonant-looking a man. Several glasses were raised this time. When the toast was done, the man turned to Paul with the friendliest of smiles and said, "My boy's just turned eighteen, Doctor."
"That's nice."

"He's got his whole life ahead of him. Wonderful age, eighteen." He paused, as though his remark demanded a response.
"I'd like to be eighteen again," said Paul lamely.
"He's a good boy, Doctor. He isn't what you'd call real bright. Like his old man - his heart's in the right place, and he wants to do the most he can with what he's got." Again the waitful pause.
"That's all any of us can do," said Paul.
"Well, as long as such a smart man as you is here, maybe I could get you to give me some advice for the boy. He just finished his National General Classification Tests. He just about killed himself studying up for them, but it wasn't any use. He didn't do nearly well enough for college. There were only twenty-seven openings, and six hundred kids trying for them." He shrugged. "I can't afford to send him to a private school, so now he's got to decide what he's going to do with his life, Doctor: what's it going to be, the Army or the Reeks and Wrecks?"
"I suppose there's a lot to be said for both," said Paul uncomfortably. "I really don't know much about either one. Somebody else, like Matheson, maybe, would . . ." His sentence trailed off. Matheson was Ilium's manager in charge of testing and placement. Paul knew him slightly, didn't like him very well. Matheson was a powerful bureaucrat who went about his job with the air of a high priest. "I'll call Matheson, if you like, and ask him, and let you know what he says."
"Doctor," said the man, desperately now, with no tinge of baiting, "isn't there something the boy could do at the Works? He's awfully clever with his hands. He's got a kind of instinct with machines. Give him one he's never seen before, and in ten minutes he'll have it apart and back together again. He loves that kind of work. Isn't there someplace in the plant -?"
"He's got to have a graduate degree," said Paul. He reddened. "That's policy, and I didn't make it. Sometimes we get Reconstruction and Reclamation people

over to help put in big machines or do a heavy repair job, but not very often. Maybe he could open a repair shop."
The man exhaled, slumped dejectedly. "Repair shop," he sighed. "Repair shop, he says. How many repair shops you think Ilium can support, eh? Repair shop, sure! I was going to open one when I got laid off. So was Joe, so was Sam, so was Alf. We're all clever with our hands, so we'll all open repair shops. One repairman for every broken article in Ilium. Meanwhile, our wives clean up as dressmakers - one dressmaker for every woman in town."
Rudy Hertz had apparently missed all the talk and was still celebrating in his mind the happy reunion with his great and good friend, Doctor Paul Proteus. "Music," said Rudy grandly. "Let's have music!" He reached over Paul's shoulder and popped a nickel into the player piano.
Paul stepped away from the box. Machinery whirred importantly for a few seconds, and then the piano started clanging away at "Alexander's Ragtime Band" liked cracked carillons. Mercifully, conversation was all but impossible. Mercifully, the bartender emerged from the basement and handed Paul a dusty bottle over the old heads.
Paul turned to leave, and a powerful hand closed on his upper arm. Rudy, his expansive host, held him.
"I played this song in your honor, Doctor," shouted Rudy above the racket. "Wait till it's over." Rudy acted as though the antique instrument were the newest of all wonders, and he excitedly pointed out identifiable musical patterns in the bobbing keys - trills, spectacular runs up the keyboard, and the slow, methodical rise and fall of keys in the bass. "See - see them two go up and down, Doctor! Just the way the feller hit 'em. Look at 'em go!"
The music stopped abruptly, with the air of having delivered exactly five cents worth of joy. Rudy still shouted. "Makes you feel kind of creepy, don't it, Doctor, watching them keys go up and down? You can almost see a ghost sitting there playing his heart out."

Paul twisted free and hurried out to his car. CHAPTER FOUR
"Darling, you look as though you've seen a ghost," said Anita. She was already dressed for the party at the Country Club, already dominating a distinguished company she had yet to join.
As she handed Paul his cocktail, he felt somehow inadequate, bumbling, in the presence of her beautiful assurance. Only things that might please or interest her came to mind - all else submerged. It wasn't a conscious act of his mind, but a reflex, a natural response to her presence. It annoyed him that the feeling should be automatic, because he fancied himself in the image of his father, and, in this situation, his father would have been completely in charge - taking the first, last, and best lines for himself.
The expression "armed to the teeth" occurred to Paul as he looked at her over his glass. With an austere dark gown that left her tanned shoulders and throat bare, a single bit of jewelry on her finger, and very light make-up, Anita had successfully combined the weapons of sex, taste, and an aura of masculine competence.
She quieted, and turned away under his stare. Inadvertently, he'd gained the upper hand. He had somehow communicated the thought that had bobbed up in his thoughts unexpectedly: that her strength and poise were no more than a mirror image of his own importance, an image of the power and self-satisfaction the

manager of the Ilium Works could have, if he wanted it. In a fleeting second she became a helpless, bluffing little girl in his thoughts, and he was able to feel real tenderness toward her.
"Good drink, sweetheart," he said. "Finnerty upstairs?"
"I sent him on over to the club. Kroner and Baer got there early, and I sent Finnerty over to keep them company while you get dressed."
"How does he look?"
"How did Finnerty always look? Awful. I swear he was wearing the same baggy suit he wore when he said goodbye to us seven years ago. And I'll swear it hasn't been cleaned since then, either. I tried to get him to wear your old tuxedo, and he wouldn't hear of it. Went right over the way he was. I suppose a stiff shirt would have been worse in a way. It would have showed how dirty his neck is."
She pulled the neck of her dress lower, looked at herself in a mirror, and raised it slightly again - a delicate compromise. "Honestly," she said, talking to Paul's image in the mirror, "I'm crazy about that man - you know I am. But he just looks awful all the time. I mean, after all, a man in his position, and not even clean."
Paul smiled and shook his head. It was true. Finnerty had always been shockingly lax about his grooming, and some of his more fastidious supervisors in the old days had found it hard to believe that a man could be so staggeringly competent, and at the same time so unsanitary-looking. Occasionally, the tall, gaunt Irishman would surprise everyone - usually between long stretches of work - by showing up with his cheeks gleaming like wax apples, and with new shoes, socks, shirt, tie, and suit, and, presumably, underwear. Engineers' and managers' wives would make a big fuss over him, to show him that such care of himself was important and rewarding; and they declared that he was really the handsomest thing in the Ilium industrial fold. Quite possibly he was, in a coarse, weathered way: grotesquely handsome, like Abe Lincoln, but with a predatory, defiant cast to his eyes rather than the sadness of Lincoln's. After Finnerty's periodic outbursts of cleanliness and freshness, the wives would watch with increasing distress as he

wore the entire celebrated outfit day in and day out, until the sands and soot and grease of time had filled every seam and pore.
And Finnerty had other unsavory aspects. Into the resolutely monogamous and Eagle Scout-like society of engineers and managers, Finnerty often brought women he'd picked up in Homestead a half-hour before. When it came time, after supper, to play games, Finnerty and the girl would generally take a highball in either hand and wander off to the shrub-walled first tee, if it was warm, or out to his car, if it was cold.
His car - in the old days, anyway - had been more disreputable than Paul's was today. In this direction, at least - the most innocuous direction, socially - Paul had imitated his friend. Finnerty had claimed that his love of books and records and good whisky kept him too broke to buy a car and clothes commensurate with his position in life. Paul had computed the value of Finnerty's record, book, and bottle collections and concluded that the Irishman would still have plenty left for even two new cars. It was then that Paul began to suspect that Finnerty's way of life wasn't as irrational as it seemed; that it was, in fact, a studied and elaborate insult to the managers and engineers of Ilium, and to their immaculate wives.
Why Finnerty had seen fit to offend these gentle people was never clear to Paul, who supposed the aggressiveness, like most aggressiveness, dated back to some childhood muddle. The only intimation as to what that childhood had been like had come not from Finnerty but from Kroner, who took a breeder's interest in his engineers' bloodlines. Kroner had once remarked, confidingly and with a show of sympathy, that Finnerty was a mutant, born of poor and stupid parents. The only insight Finnerty had ever permitted Paul was in a moment of deep depression, during a crushing hangover, when he'd sighed and said he'd never felt he belonged anywhere.
Paul wondered about his own deep drives as he realized how much pleasure he was getting from recollections of Finnerty's socially destructive, undisciplined antics. Paul indulged himself in the wistful sensation of feeling that he, Paul, might be content, if only - and let the thought stop there, as though he knew

vaguely what lay beyond. He didn't.
Paul envied Finnerty's mind, for Finnerty could be anything he wanted to be, and be brilliant at it. Whatever the times might have called for, Finnerty would have been among the best. If this had been the age of music, Finnerty would have been, and in fact was, a top-flight pianist - or he might have been an architect or physician or writer. With inhuman intuition, Finnerty could sense the basic principles and motives of almost any human work, not just engineering.
Paul could have been only what he was, he thought. As he filled his glass again, he supposed that he could only have come to this moment, this living room, into the presence of Anita.
It was an appalling thought, to be so well-integrated into the machinery of society and history as to be able to move in only one plane, and along one line. Finnerty's arrival was disturbing, for it brought to the surface the doubt that life should be that way. Paul had been thinking of hiring a psychiatrist to make him docile, content with his lot, amiable to all. But now, here was Finnerty, pushing him in the other direction. Finnerty had seemed to see something in Paul he hadn't seen in the others, something he'd liked - possibly a rebellious streak that Paul was only now beginning to suspect. For some reason Finnerty had made Paul his only friend.
"In a way, I wish Finnerty'd picked another day," said Anita. "It raises all sorts of problems. Baer's supposed to be on my left, and Kroner on my right; but now, with a member of the National Industrial Planning Board blowing in unexpectedly, I'm not sure who goes where. Is Ed Finnerty bigger brass than Kroner and Baer?" she asked incredulously.
"Look in the Organization Directory, if you want," said Paul. "I think you'll find the N.I.P.B. is listed ahead of the regional people - but it's more brain trust than brass. Finnerty won't care. He'll probably eat with the help."
"If he sets foot in the kitchen, the Board of Health will throw him in jail." She laughed uneasily. It was evident that she found it trying to be a good sport about

Finnerty, to pretend that his eccentricities were amusing. She changed the subject. "Tell me about today."
"Nothing about today. One more, like all the rest." "You got the whisky?"
"Yes. I had to go across the river to get it."
"Was it such an awful ordeal?" she chided. She couldn't understand why he hated to run errands into Homestead, and teased him about it. "Was it so awful?" she said again, bordering on baby talk, as though he were a lazy little boy coaxed into doing a small favor for his mother.
"Pretty bad."
"Really?" She was surprised. "Nothing violent, I hope."
"No. Everybody was very polite, in fact. One of the pensioners recognized me from the old days and threw an impromptu party for me."
"Well, that sounds like downright fun."
"Does, doesn't it? His name is Rudy Hertz." Without describing his own reactions, he told her what had happened. He found himself watching her closely, experimenting.
"And that upset you?" She laughed. "You are a sensitive darling, aren't you? You tell me you've been through a nightmare, and nothing happened at all."
"They hate me."
"They proved they loved and admired you. And, what's more, they should." "The man with the thick glasses as much as said his son's life wasn't worth

living on account of me."
"You said that. He didn't. And I won't have you saying ridiculous things like that. Do you get some sort of pleasure out of making things up to feel guilty about? If his son isn't bright enough for anything but the Reeks and Wrecks or the Army, is that your fault?"
"No; but if it hadn't been for men like me, he might have a machine in the plant - "
"Is he starving?"
"Of course not. Nobody starves."
"And he's got a place to live and warm clothes. He has what he'd have if he were running a stupid machine, swearing at it, making mistakes, striking every year, fighting with the foreman, coming in with hangovers."
"You're right, you're right." He held up his hands. "Of course you're right. It's just a hell of a time to be alive, is all - just this goddamn messy business of people having to get used to new ideas. And people just don't, that's all. I wish this were a hundred years from now, with everybody used to the change."
"You're tired. I'm going to tell Kroner you need a month off."
"I'll tell him, if I feel like it."
"I wasn't trying to run your life, darling. But you never ask for anything." "Let me do the asking, if you don't mind."
"I don't. I promise you I don't mind at all."
"Did you lay my things out?"

"On your bed," she said primly. She'd been hurt. "Tuxedo, shirt, socks, studs, cuff links, and a new tie."
"New tie?"
"Dubonnet."
"Dubonnet! For Christ's sake."
"Kroner and Baer are wearing dubonnet ties."
"And is my underwear like theirs?"
"I'm sure I didn't notice."
"I'm wearing a black tie."
"Pittsburgh, darling - remember? You said you wanted to go there."
"Hi ho, dubonnet." He climbed the stairs to their bedroom, stripping off his coat and shirt as he went.
"Ed!" Finnerty was stretched out on Anita's bed.
"So there you are," said Finnerty. He pointed at the tuxedo laid out on Paul's bed. "I thought this was you. I've been talking to it for half an hour."
"Anita said you'd gone to the club."
"Anita expelled me out the front door, so I came in the back and up here." "Well, I'm glad you did. How are things?"
"Worse than ever, but there's hope."
"Fine," said Paul, laughing uncertainly. "Married?"

"Never. Shut the door."
Paul closed it. "How's the Washington job?" "I've quit."
"Really? Something bigger yet?"
"I think so, or I wouldn't have quit." "Where?"
"No place. No job at all."
"Not enough pay, or worn out, or what?"
"Sick of it," he said slowly. "The pay was fantastically good, ridiculously good - paid like a television queen with a forty-inch bust. But when I got this year's invitation to the Meadows, Paul, something snapped. I realized I couldn't face another session up there. And then I looked around me and found out I couldn't face anything about the system any more. I walked out, and here I am."
Paul's invitation to the Meadows was carelessly displayed by Anita in the front- hall mirror, where no one could fail to notice it. The Meadows was a flat, grassy island in the St. Lawrence, in Chippewa Bay, where the most important men, and the most promising men ("Those whose development within the organization is not yet complete," said the Handbook) in the Eastern and Middle-Western Divisions spent a week each summer in an orgy of morale building - through team athletics, group sings, bonfires and skyrockets, bawdy entertainment, free whisky and cigars; and through plays, put on by professional actors, which pleasantly but unmistakably made clear the nature of good deportment within the system, and the shape of firm resolves for the challenging year ahead.
Finnerty took a crumpled pack of cigarettes from his pocket, offered one bent at

almost a right angle. Paul straightened it out, his fingers unsteady. "Got the shakes?" said Finnerty.
"I'm chief speaker tonight."
"Oh?" He seemed disappointed. "Then you don't ordinarily have the shakes these days? What's the occasion?"
"Thirteen years ago today, the Ilium Works was placed under the National Manufacturing Council."
"Like every other plant in the country."
"Ilium was a little earlier than most." The union of the country's manufacturing facilities under one council had taken place not long after Finnerty, Paul, and Shepherd came to work in Ilium. It had been done because of the war. Similar councils had been formed for the transportation, raw materials, food, and communications industries, and over them all had been Paul's father. The system had so cut waste and duplication that it was preserved after the war, and was, in fact, often cited as one of the few concrete benefits of the war.
"Does that make you happy, that this has been going on thirteen years?"
"It calls for comment, anyway. I'm going to keep it factual. It isn't going to be like Kroner's evangelism."
Finnerty fell silent, apparently uninterested in pursuing the subject. "Funny," he said at last, "I thought you'd be pretty close to the edge by now. That's why I came here."
Paul twisted his face as he struggled to get his collar button moored. "Well, you weren't completely wrong. There's talk of my chatting with a psychiatrist."
"So you are in rough shape. Wonderful! Let's get out of this damn party. We've got to talk."

The bedroom door opened, and Anita looked in from the hall. "Oh! Ed. Who's with Baer and Kroner?"
"Kroner's with Baer, Baer's with Kroner," said Finnerty. "Close the door, please, Anita."
"It's time to go to the club."
"It's time for you to go to the club," said Finnerty. "Paul and I'll be along later."
"We're going together, and now, Ed. We're ten minutes late as it is. And I won't be bullied by you. I refuse." She smiled unconvincingly.
"Let's go," said Paul.
"Anita," said Finnerty, "if you don't show more respect for men's privacy, I'll
design a machine that's everything you are, and does show respect."
She colored. "I can't say I find you screamingly funny."
"Stainless steel," said Finnerty. "Stainless steel, covered with sponge rubber, and heated electrically to 98.6 degrees."
"Now, look -" said Paul.
"And blushes at will," said Finnerty.
"And I could make a man like you out of a burlap bag filled with mud," said Anita. "Anybody who tries to touch you comes away dirty!" She slammed the door, and Paul listened to her heels clicking down the staircase.
"Now, why in hell did you do that?" said Paul. "Do you mind telling me?"
Finnerty lay motionless on the bed, staring at the ceiling. "I don't know," he said slowly, "but I'm not sorry. Go on with her."

"What are your plans?"
"Go on!" He said it as though Paul had suddenly intruded just as he was giving form to an important, difficult thought.
"There's Irish whisky for you in a brown bag in the front hall," said Paul, and he left Finnerty lying there.
CHAPTER FIVE
Paul overtook Anita in the garage, where she was starting the station wagon. Without looking directly at him, she waited for him to climb in beside her. They drove to the club in silence, with Paul feeling let down by the coarse, irrational reality of Finnerty. Over the years, he supposed bitterly, he must have created a wise and warm Finnerty in his imagination, an image that had little to do with the real man.
At the club door, Anita straightened Paul's tie, pulled her cape down to bare her shoulders, smiled, and pushed into the brightly lighted foyer.
The far end of the foyer opened into the bar, and there two dozen of the Ilium Works' bright young men, identical in their crew cuts and the tailoring of their tuxedos, surrounded two men in their middle fifties. One of the older men, Kroner, tall, heavy, and slow, listened to the youngsters with ponderous affectionateness. The other, Baer, slight and nervous, noisily and unconvincingly extroverted, laughed, nudged, and clapped shoulders, and maintained a continuous commentary on whatever was being said: "Fine, fine, right, sure, sure, wonderful,

yes, yes, exactly, fine, good."
Ilium was a training ground, where fresh graduates were sent to get the feel of industry and then moved on to bigger things. The staff was young, then, and constantly renewing itself. The oldest men were Paul, and his second-in- command, Lawson Shepherd. Shepherd, a bachelor, stood by the bar, somewhat apart from the rest, looking wise, and faintly amused by the naïveté of some of the youngsters' remarks.
The wives had congregated in two adjacent booths, and there spoke quietly and uneasily, and turned to look whenever the volume of voices rose above a certain level, or whenever the bass voice of Kroner rumbled through the haze of small talk with three or four short, wise, wonderfully pregnant words.
The youngsters turned to greet Paul and Anita effusively, with playful obsequiousness, with the air of having proprietorship over all good times, which they generously encouraged their elders to share in.
Baer waved and called to them in his high-pitched voice. Kroner nodded almost imperceptibly, and stood perfectly still, not looking directly at them, waiting for them to come up so that greetings could be exchanged quietly and with dignity.
Kroner's enormous, hairy hand closed about Paul's, and Paul, in spite of himself, felt docile, and loving, and childlike. It was as though Paul stood in the enervating, emasculating presence of his father again. Kroner, his father's closest friend, had always made him feel that way, and seemingly wanted to make him feel that way. Paul had sworn a thousand times to keep his wits about him the next time he met Kroner. But it was a matter beyond his control, and at each meeting, as now, the power and resolve were all in the big hands of the older man.
Though Paul was especially aware of the paternal aura about Kroner, the big man tried to make the feeling general. He spoke of himself as father to all of the men under him, and more vaguely, to their wives; and it was no pose. His administration of the Eastern Division had an emotional flavor about it, and it seemed unlikely that he could have run the Division any other way. He was

cognizant of every birth or major illness, and heaped blame on himself in the rare instances that any of his men went wrong. He could also be stern - again, paternally.
"How are you, Paul?" he said warmly. The quizzical set of his thick eyebrows indicated that this was a question, not a salutation. The tone was one Kroner used when inquiring into someone's condition after a siege of pneumonia or worse.
"He's never been better," said Anita briskly.
"Glad to hear it. That's fine, Paul." Kroner continued to hold onto his hand and to stare into his eyes.
"Feel good, do you, eh? Good? Good, eh? Wonderful," said Baer, clapping him on the shoulder several times. "Wonderful." Baer, the Eastern Division's chief engineer, turned to Anita. "And, oh my! Don't you look nice. My, yes. Oh! I should say so." He grinned.
Baer was a social cretin, apparently unaware that he was anything but suave and brilliant in company. Someone had once mentioned his running commentary on conversations to him, and he hadn't known what they were talking about. Technically, there wasn't a better engineer in the East, including Finnerty. There was little in the Division that hadn't been master-minded by Baer, who here seemed to Kroner what a fox terrier seems to a St. Bernard. Paul had thought often of the peculiar combination of Kroner and Baer, and wondered if, when they were gone, higher management could possibly duplicate it. Baer embodied the knowledge and technique of industry; Kroner personified the faith, the near- holiness, the spirit of the complicated venture. Kroner, in fact, had a poor record as an engineer and had surprised Paul from time to time with his ignorance or misunderstanding of technical matters; but he had the priceless quality of believing in the system, and of making others believe in it, too, and do as they were told.
The two were inseparable, though their personalities met at almost no point.

Together, they made an approximately whole man.
"Did someone tell you Paul had been sick?" said Anita, laughing.
"I'd heard Paul's nerves had been bothering him," said Kroner.
"Not true," said Paul.
Kroner smiled. "Glad to hear it, Paul. You're one of our best men." He looked at him fondly. "In the footsteps of your father, Paul."
"Where did you hear about Paul's nerves?" said Anita.
"Can't imagine," said Kroner.
"Doctor Shepherd told us," said Baer brightly. "I was there this morning. Remember? It was Shepherd."
"Now listen," said Kroner with unaccustomed quickness, "that was something else Shepherd was talking about. You know it was, if you'll just think back."
"Oh sure, that's right, that's right; something else, something else," said Baer, looking puzzled. He clapped Paul on the shoulder again. "So you're feeling better, eh? Well, that's what counts. Wonderful, wonderful."
Doctor Shepherd, his neck blazing red above his stiff collar, moved quietly away from the bar toward the French doors that opened onto the golf course.
"By the way," said Kroner heartily, "where's your friend Finnerty? What does Ed look like? I imagine he's found life in Washington a little less -" he searched for a word " - informal than here."
"If you mean, does he wash? - the answer is still no," said Anita.
"That's what I meant," said Kroner. "Well, none of us are perfect, and darn few

of us perfect enough to get a place on the National Industrial Planning Board. Where is he?"
"He may be along later," said Paul. "He's a little tired from his trip."
"Why, where's Mom?" said Anita, ditching the subject of Finnerty. Mom was Kroner's wife, whom he always brought to social functions, deposited with other wives, and ignored until the affectionate moment when it was time to retrieve her and cart her hundred and eighty pounds home.
"That intestinal thing that's been making the rounds," said Kroner gravely.
Everyone within hearing shook his or her head compassionately.
"Dinner," said a Philippino waiter. There had once been a movement to have the service done by machines, but the extremists who'd proposed this had been voted down by an overwhelming majority.
As Paul, Kroner, Baer, and Anita walked into the candlelit dining room, followed by the rest, four of the youngest engineers, the most recent arrivals, brushed past and turned to block the way.
Fred Berringer, a short, heavy, slit-eyed blond, seemed to be their leader. He was a wealthy, extroverted, dull boy from a good family of engineers and managers in Minneapolis. He had squeaked through college, and was just barely acceptable to the personnel machines. Ordinarily, nobody would have hired him. But Kroner, who knew his bloodlines, had taken him on anyway and sent him to Ilium to be trained. The break had done anything but teach him humility. He took it as evidence that his money and name could beat the system any time and, paraphrased, he'd said as much. The hell of it was that his attitude won grudging admiration from his fellow engineers, who had got their jobs the hard way. Paul supposed, gloomily, that beaters of systems had always been admired by the conventional. At any rate, Kroner still believed in the boy, so Paul had no choice but to keep him on, and to pair a smarter man with him to backstop his mental apparatus.

"What is this, Fred, a stickup?" said Paul.
"Checker champion," said Fred, "I hereby challenge you for the championship immediately after dinner."
Kroner and Baer seemed delighted. They were forever suggesting that teams be formed and games be played as a method for building morale in the Eastern Division's family.
"Just you, or all four of you?" said Paul. He was in fact the club checker champion, though there had never been any sort of official playoff. No one could beat him, and, wearily as often as not, he had had to prove his invincibility to each new group of engineers - like these four. It was a custom, and the close little society on the north side of the river seemed to feel the need of customs, of private jokes, of building up social characteristics to distinguish themselves - in their own eyes - from the rest of society. The checker game of the new engineers with Paul was one of the hoariest traditions, now in its seventh year.
"Me, mostly," said Berringer. "But all of us, in a way." The others laughed like conspirators. Apparently something special had been cooked up, and one or two of the older engineers seemed to be sharing in the high expectations.
"All right," said Paul good-humoredly; "if there were ten of you, and each one blowing cigar smoke in my face, I'd still win."
The four parted to let Paul, Anita, and the two guests of honor get to the table.
"Oh," said Anita, studying the place cards at the head of the table, "there's been a mistake." She picked up the card to her left, wadded it up, and handed it to Paul. She moved another card into the vacant position and sat down, flanked by Kroner and Baer. She called a waiter to take away the now extra place setting. Paul looked at the card and saw it was Finnerty's.
The assemblage was a practical, earthy one, and the shrimp cocktails,

consommé, creamed chicken, peas, and mashed potatoes were enjoyed for their own sake. There was little talk, and much pantomimed savoring and beaming to show the hostess that everything tasted first rate.
Periodically, Kroner would comment on this dish or that, and he would be echoed by Baer, and then by nods about the table. Once, an argument broke out in loud whispers at the far end of the table, among the four youngsters who had challenged Paul to the checker game. When all eyes turned in their direction, they shut up. Berringer frowned, sketched a diagram of some sort on a napkin, and thrust it at the other three. One of them made a slight correction and handed it back. Understanding, then admiration, showed on Berringer's face. He nodded vigorously and went back to eating.
Paul counted around the table - twenty-seven managers and engineers, the staff of the Ilium Works and their wives, less the evening shift. There were two vacant places: one, the bare square of tablecloth once reserved for Finnerty; the other, the untouched setting for Shepherd, who had not come back from his hurried trip onto the golf course.
Finnerty was probably still lying in the bedroom, staring at the ceiling, perhaps talking to himself. Maybe he'd left soon after they had and gone on a bender or whoring expedition in Homestead. Paul hoped they'd seen the last of him for another few years. The brilliant liberal, the iconoclast, the freethinker he had admired in his youth now proved to be no more than sick, repellent. The quitting, the uninvited attack on Anita, the glorying in neuroses - all had a frightening cast to them. It was an awful disappointment. Paul had expected that Finnerty would be able to give him something - what, he didn't know - to assuage the nameless, aching need that had been nagging him almost, as Shepherd had apparently told Kroner, to the point of distraction.
As for Shepherd, Paul felt completely charitable, and even embarrassed that the man should be so upset at having been discovered as an informer. Paul stood.
"Where are you going, dear?" said Anita.

"To get Shepherd."
"He didn't say you were having a breakdown," said Baer.
Kroner frowned at Baer. "No, really he didn't, Paul. If you like, I'll go after him. It was my fault, bringing up the subject. It wasn't Shepherd, and the poor boy -"
"I just thought it was Shepherd," said Baer.
"I think it's up to me," said Paul.
"I'll come, too," said Anita. There was a promise of vengeance in her voice.
"No, I'd rather you wouldn't."
Paul headed through the bar quickly, and heard her coming after him.
"I wouldn't miss this for anything."
"There isn't going to be anything to miss," said Paul. "I'm simply going to tell him everything's O.K., I understand. And I do understand."
"He wants that Pittsburgh job, Paul. That's why he told Kroner you were having a breakdown. Now he's scared stiff for fear of losing his job. Good!"
"I'm not going to get him fired."
"You could keep him worrying for a while. It'd serve him right." "Please, Anita - this is between Shepherd and me."
They stood on the turf of the golf course now, in a muffled world of blues and blacks under the frail light of a new moon. Seated on the bench by the first tee, his legs stretched out and far apart, was Shepherd, with three cocktail glasses lined up beside him.

"Shep," called Paul softly.
"Hello." It was flat, with nothing behind it.
"Beat it," whispered Paul to Anita. She stayed, clenching and unclenching her hands.
"Soup's getting cold," said Paul, as kindly as possible. He sat down on the bench, with the three glasses between them. "I don't give a damn whether you told them I was going to pieces or not." Anita stood a dozen yards away, silhouetted against the French doors.
"I'd rather you'd get sore as hell about it," said Sheperd. "I told them, all right. Go ahead and can me."
"Oh, for Christ's sake, Shep, nobody's going to can you."
Paul had never known what to make of Shepherd, had found it hard to believe that any man really thought as Shepherd did. When Shepherd had first arrived in Ilium, he had announced to his fellow new arrivals, Paul and Finnerty, that he intended to compete with them. Baldly, ridiculously, he talked of competitiveness and rehashed with anyone who would listen various crises where there had been a showdown between his abilities and those of someone else, crises that the other participants had looked upon as being routine, unremarkable, and generally formless. But, to Shepherd, life seemed to be laid out like a golf course, with a series of beginnings, hazards, and ends, and with a definite summing up - for comparison with others scores - after each hole. He was variously grim or elated over triumphs or failures no one else seemed to notice, but always stoical about the laws that governed the game. He asked no quarter, gave no quarter, and made very little difference to Paul, Finnerty, or any of his other associates. He was a fine engineer, dull company, and doggedly master of his fate and not his brother's keeper.
Paul, fidgeting silently on the bench, tried to put himself in Shepherd's place.

Shepherd had lost a round, and now, grimly respectful of the mechanics of the competitive system, he wanted to pay the forfeit for losing and get on to the next episode, which he was, as always, determined to win. It was a hard world he lived in, but he wouldn't have it any other way. God knows why.
"Wanted to do me out of the Pittsburgh job, eh?" said Paul.
"I think I'm a better man for it," said Shepherd. "But what difference does that make now? I'm out of it."
"You lost."
"I tried and lost," said Shepherd. It was a vital distinction. "Go ahead and fire me."
The surest way to needle Shepherd was to refuse to compete. "I don't know," said Paul, "I think you'd be a good man for the Pittsburgh spot. If you like, I'll write a recommendation."
"Paul!" said Anita.
"Go back in, Anita," said Paul. "We'll be back in a minute." Anita seemed to be itching to give Shepherd just what he wanted, a rousing fight, something he could use as a starting point for another, as he saw it, cycle of play.
"I forgive you," said Paul. "I want you to go on working for me, if you will. There isn't a better man in the world for your job."
"You'd like to keep me right under your thumb, wouldn't you?"
Paul laughed bleakly. "No. It'd be just as before. Under my thumb? How could - "
"If you won't fire me, I want a transfer."

"All right. You know that isn't up to me. But let's go inside, shall we?" He held out his hand as Shepherd stood. Shepherd refused it, and brushed by.
Anita stopped him. "If you have any opinions on my husband's health, perhaps he or his doctor should be the first to hear them," she said huskily.
"Your husband and his doctor have known for months what I told Kroner and Baer. He isn't in any shape to be trusted with a foot-treadle sewing machine, let alone Pittsburgh." He was warming up now, getting his spirit back, and perhaps seeing the possibilities of having their voices carry into the dining room.
Paul seized them both by their arms and propelled them into the bar and in view of the dinner party. All were looking questioningly in their direction. Paul, Anita, and Shepherd smiled, and crossed the bar to the dining room, arm in arm.
"Under the weather?" said Kroner to Shepherd kindly.
"Yessir. Scallops for lunch did it, I think."
Kroner nodded sympathetically and turned to the waiter. "Could the boy have milk toast, do you suppose?" Kroner was willing to go to any lengths to preserve harmony in his family, to give a man in a tight spot a way out. For the rest of the evening, Paul supposed, Kroner would be keeping alive - as with the milk toast now - the polite fiction of Shepherd's illness.
After coffee and a liqueur, Paul gave a brief talk on the integration of the Ilium Works with other industry under the National Manufacturing Council fourteen years before. And then he went into the more general subject of what he called the Second Industrial Revolution. He read the talk, rather, taking pains to look up from his manuscript at regular intervals. It was, as he had told Katharine Finch in the office that afternoon, old stuff - a progress report, a reaffirmation of faith in what they were doing and had done with industry. Machines were doing America's work far better than Americans had ever done it. There were better goods for more people at less cost, and who could deny that that was magnificent and gratifying? It was what everyone said when he had to make a talk.

At one point, Kroner raised his big hand and asked if he might make a comment. "Just to sort of underline what you're saying, Paul, I'd like to point out something I thought was rather interesting. One horsepower equals about twenty- two manpower - big manpower. If you convert the horsepower of one of the bigger steel-mill motors into terms of manpower, you'll find that the motor does more work than the entire slave population of the United States at the time of the Civil War could do - and do it twenty-four hours a day." He smiled beatifically. Kroner was the rock, the fountainhead of faith and pride for all in the Eastern Division.
"That is an interesting figure," said Paul, searching for his place in the manuscript. "And that, of course, simply applies to the First Industrial Revolution, where machines devalued muscle work. The second revolution, the one we're now completing, is a little tougher to express in terms of work saved. If there were some measure like horsepower in which we could express annoyance or boredom that people used to experience in routine jobs - but there isn't."
"You can measure rejects, I'm here to tell you," said Baer, "and the darnedest, stupidest mistakes imaginable. The waste, the stoppages, the lemons! You can express it in dollars all right, dollars that went into bad workmanship."
"Yes," said Paul, "but I was thinking of it from the worker's point of view. The two industrial revolutions eliminated two kinds of drudgery, and I was looking for some way of estimating just how much the second revolution had relieved men of."
"I work," said Baer. Everyone laughed.
"The others - across the river," said Paul.
"They never did work," said Kroner, and again everyone laughed. "And they're reproducing like rabbits," said Anita.

"Somebody telling dirty jokes about rabbits reproducing?" said Finnerty, standing in the doorway. He swayed slightly, and his breathing was shallow. He had evidently found the whiskey. "Which one was it? Where the little girl rabbit went into the rabbit hardware store, and the clerk -"
Kroner was on his feet. "Well, Finnerty - how are you, my boy?" He summoned the waiter. "You're just in time for coffee, my boy - a big cup of black coffee." He put his huge arm around Finnerty and steered him to the place that Anita had had cleared. Finnerty picked up the place card of the engineer next to him, squinted at it, then at the man. "Where's my goddamn place card?"
"Give him his place card, for heaven's sakes," said Anita.
Paul took it from his pocket, smoothed it out, and set it before Finnerty. Finnerty nodded, and fell into a morose silence.
"We were just talking about the Second Industrial Revolution," said Kroner, as though nothing were amiss. "Paul was talking about how there is no real measure of the kind of drudgery it has eliminated. I think the story can be told in terms of a curve, perhaps - as most stories can be presented most clearly."
"Not the one about the little girl rabbit in the rabbit hardware store," said Finnerty.
Everyone, following Kroner's example, ignored him. "If we plot man hours worked against the number of vacuum tubes in use, the man hours worked drop as the tubes increase."
"Like rabbits," said Finnerty.
Kroner smiled. "As you say, like rabbits. Incidentally, Paul, another interesting sidelight your father probably told you about is how people didn't pay much attention to this, as you call it, Second Industrial Revolution for quite some time. Atomic energy was hogging the headlines, and everybody talked as though peacetime uses of atomic energy were going to remake the world. The Atomic

Age, that was the big thing to look forward to. Remember, Baer? And meanwhile, the tubes increased like rabbits."
"And dope addiction, alcoholism, and suicide went up proportionately," said Finnerty.
"Ed!" said Anita.
"That was the war," said Kroner soberly. "It happens after every war."
"And organized vice and divorce and juvenile delinquency, all parallel the growth of the use of vacuum tubes," said Finnerty.
"Oh, come on, Ed," said Paul, "you can't prove a logical connection between those factors."
"If there's the slightest connection, it's worth thinking about," said Finnerty.
"I'm sure there isn't enough connection for us to be concerned with here," said Kroner severely.
"Or enough imagination or honesty," said Finnerty.
"Oh, honestly! What are you talking about?" said Anita. She wadded her napkin nervously. "Come on - shall we leave this gloomy place and have the checker championship?"
The response was sighs and grateful nods all around the table. With little regret, Paul laid the remainder of his speech aside. The party, save for Finnerty, swept into the club's game room, where a checkerboard had already been set up, and where a battery of floor lamps ringed the table on which it rested, immaculate and glaring.
The four challengers trotted ahead, held a hurried conference, and three of them went to the checkroom. The fourth, Fred Berringer, sat down at the board and

grinned mysteriously.
Paul took the chair opposite. "Play much?" he said.
"A little, a little."
"Let's see, Fred, you're from Minnesota, aren't you? Is the Minnesota checker championship by any chance at stake, Fred?"
"Sorry, I've got the club championship to win, and nothing to lose."
"You're going to lose, going to lose," said Baer. "They all do, all do, all of them do, eh Paul? All lose to you."
"Modesty forbids that I answer," said Paul. "My record speaks for itself." He permitted himself a mild sort of elation over his invincibility. There would be some bizarre twist to tonight's game, judging from the activity in the checkroom, but he wasn't worried.
"Make way for Checker Charley! Make way for Checker Charley!" shouted Berringer's seconds from the foyer.
The crowd in the gameroom parted, and the three rolled in a man-high box that was shrouded in a bedsheet and grumbled along on casters.
"There's a man in there?" said Kroner.
"A brain, a brain," said Berringer triumphantly. "Checker Charley, world's champion checker player, and looking for new planets to conquer." He grabbed a corner of the bedsheet, and unveiled Charley - a gray steel box with a checkerboard painted on its front panel. In each square that could be occupied by a checkerpiece were a red and a green jewel, each with a lamp behind it.
"Pleased to meet you, Charley," said Paul, trying to smile. When he realized what was going on, he felt himself reddening and getting a little mad. His first

inclination was to walk the hell out.
Baer had the back of the box open. "Oh, oh, my, yes indeed," he said. "Look, look, look, and that goes over to there - and oh! Ha! Oh, my, I believe it's even got a memory. Isn't that what the tape's for, boys, huh? Memory? Tape memory?"
"Yessir," said Berringer uncertainly. "I guess so."
"You built this?" said Kroner incredulously.
"Nossir," said Berringer, "my father. His hobby."
"Berringer, Berringer, Berringer," said Baer, frowning.
"You know - Dave Berringer; this is Dave's boy," said Kroner.
"Oh!" Baer looked at Checker Charley with new admiration. "By George, no wonder, no wonder, no wonder." Fred's father, one of the top computing-machine men in the country, had built it.
Paul slouched in his chair resignedly and waited for the comedy to begin. He looked at young Berringer's dull, complacent face, and was sure that the youngster didn't know much more about the machine than its external switches and signals.
Finnerty strolled in from the dining room, eating from a plate he held at chin level. He set his plate atop the cabinet and stuck his head into the back, alongside Baer's. "Any money on this?" he said.
"Are you crazy?" said Paul.
"Anything you say, boy; anything you say," said Berringer. He laid his fat billfold on the table.
The other three youngsters had plugged a cord from Checker Charley into an outlet in the baseboard; and now, as they flicked switches on and off, the box

hummed and clicked, and lights on the front panel winked off and on.
Paul stood. "I concede," he said. He patted the box. "Congratulations, Charles, you're a better man than I am. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the new club champion." He started out toward the bar.
"Darling," said Anita, catching his sleeve. "Oh, come on now, that isn't like you."
"I can't win against the damn thing. It can't make a mistake." "You can at least play against it."
"And prove what?"
"Come on, Paul," said Finnerty, "I've looked Charley over, and he doesn't look so all-fired bright to me. I've got fifty dollars on you with Goldilocks here, and I'll cover anybody else who thinks Checker Charley's got a chance."
Eagerly, Shepherd slapped down three twenties. Finnerty covered him. "Bet the sun won't rise tomorrow," said Paul.
"Play," said Finnerty.
Paul settled into his chair again. Dispiritedly, he pushed a checkerpiece forward. One of the youngsters closed a switch, and a light blinked on, indicating Paul's move on Checker Charley's bosom, and another light went on, indicating the perfect countermove for Berringer.
Berringer smiled and did what the machine told him to do. He lit a cigarette and patted the pile of currency beside him.
Paul moved again. A switch was closed, and the lights twinkled appropriately. And so it went for several moves.

To Paul's surprise, he took one of Berringer's pieces without, as far as he could see, laying himself open to any sort of disaster. And then he took another piece, and another. He shook his head in puzzlement and respect. The machine apparently took a long-range view of the game, with a grand strategy not yet evident. Checker Charley, as though confirming his thoughts, made an ominous hissing noise, which grew in volume as the game progressed.
"As of now, I am offering odds of three to one against Checker Charley," said Finnerty. Berringer and Shepherd both took him up on it for another twenty apiece.
Paul exchanged one man for three.
"Say - now wait just a minute," said Berringer.
"Wait for what?" said Finnerty.
"Something's wrong."
"You and Checker Charley are being beaten is all. Somebody always wins, and somebody always loses," said Finnerty. "That's the way it goes."
"Sure, but if Checker Charley was working right he couldn't lose." Berringer arose unsteadily. "Listen, we'd better call this thing off while we find out what's wrong." He tapped the front panel experimentally. "Jesus Christ, he's hot as a frying pan!"
"Finish the game, Junior. I want to know who's champ," said Finnerty.
"Don'tcha see!" said Berringer furiously. "It isn't working right." He looked pleadingly around the room.
"Your move," said Paul.
Berringer looked helplessly at the lights, slid a man forward.

Paul took two more of Berringer's pieces and made his own piece a king. "This must be the trickiest booby trap in history," he laughed. He was enjoying himself immensely.
"Any minute now, Checker Charley's going to see his opening, and then it's going to be bye-bye championship," said Finnerty. "Hop, hop, hop, hoppity hop. Curtains, Paul."
"Calculus is a wonderful thing," said Paul. He sniffed. The air was getting heavy with a smell like burning paint, and his eyes were beginning to smart.
One of Berringer's seconds jerked open the back of the box, and smoke, colored a poisonous green by the glare from within, poured into the room.
"Fire!" cried Baer.
A waiter came running with a fire extinguisher and sent a jet of fluid into Checker Charley's entrails. Steam billowed up as the jet fizzed and sputtered on the glowing parts.
The lights on Charley's steel bosom were skittering about the board wildly now, playing a demoniacal and swift game according to rules only the machine could understand. All the lights went on at once, a hum swelled louder and louder, until it sounded like a thunderous organ note, and suddenly died. One by one, the little lamps winked out, like a village going to sleep.
"Oh my, my, oh my," murmured Baer.
"Fred, I'm so sorry," said Anita. She looked reproachfully at Paul.
The engineers crowded around Checker Charley, and those in the front rank probed through the ashes, melted tubes, and blackened wires. Tragedy was in every face. Something beautiful had died.

"Such a lovely thing," said Kroner sadly, resting his hand on Berringer's shoulder. "If you like, perhaps things would go easier if I told your father what happened."
"It was practically his life - away from the laboratory," said Berringer. He was shocked and scared. "Years and years. Why did it have to happen?" It was one more hollow echo to the question humanity had been asking for millenniums, the question men were seemingly born to ask.
"The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away," said Finnerty.
Berringer bit his lip and nodded, until it began to dawn on him just who it was that had spoken. His round, stupid face slowly took on a mean, threatening cast. "Uh-huh," he said, licking his lips, "the wise guy. Almost forgot about you."
"Well, you'd better not. I've got a lot of money bet on who's going to win."
"Now, see here, Finnerty," said Kroner placatingly, "let's call it a draw, shall we? I mean, after all, the boy's got a right to be upset, and -"
"Draw, hell," said Finnerty. "Paul beat Checker Charley fair and square."
"I'm beginning to see, I think," said Berringer menacingly. He gathered Finnerty's lapels in his hands. "What'd you do to Checker Charley, wise guy?"
"Ask Baer. His head was in there with mine. Baer, did I do anything to Charley?"
"What, eh? Do anything, do anything? Damage, you mean? No, no, no," said Baer.
"So sit down and finish the game, fat boy," said Finnerty. "Or concede. Either way, I want my money."
"If you didn't do anything to Charley, how come you were so sure he'd lose?"

"Because my sympathy's with any man up against a machine, especially a machine backing up a knucklehead like you against a man like Paul. Besides, Charley had a loose connection."
"Then you should have said so!" said Berringer. He gestured at the ruins of the machine. "Look - just look, will you? Look what you did by not telling me about the connection. I ought to mop this place up with your dirty face."
"Now, now, now - there, there," said Kroner, stepping between the two. "You should have said something about that connection, Ed. This is a shame, a real shame."
"If Checker Charley was out to make chumps out of men, he could damn well fix his own connections. Paul looks after his own circuits; let Charley do the same. Those who live by electronics, die by electronics. Sic semper tyrannis." He gathered up the bills from the table. "Good night."
Anita dug her fingernails into Paul's arm. "Oh Paul, Paul, he's ruined the whole evening."
On his way out, Finnerty paused by Paul and Anita. "Nice going, champ."
"Please give them their money back," said Anita. "The machine wasn't working right. Be fair. Isn't that right, Paul?"
To the amazement of the whole somber group, Paul lost control and burst out laughing.
"That's the spirit, champ," said Finnerty. "I'm going home now, before these gentlemen sportsmen find a rope."
"Home? Washington?" said Anita.
"Your house, dear. I haven't got a place in Washington any more."

Anita closed her eyes. "Oh, I see." CHAPTER SIX
"What was his expression like when he said it?" said Anita.
Paul had the comforter pulled up over his face and was trying to get to sleep tightly curled in the dark, muffled womb he made of his bed each night. "He looked sad," he murmured. "But he always looks sad - real sweet and sad."
For three hours they had been going over the events of the evening at the club, coming back again and again to what Kroner had said by way of farewell.
"And he didn't take you aside for a couple of words at any time?" She was wide awake.
"Scout's honor, Anita, all he said was what he said at the last."
She repeated Kroner's words judiciously, " 'I want you to come see me and Mom sometime next week, Paul.' "
"That's all."
"Nothing about Pittsburgh?"
"No," he said patiently. "I tell you, no." He tucked the comforter more snugly around his head and pulled his knees up higher. "No."

"Haven't I got a right to be interested?" she said. He'd evidently hurt her. "Is that what you're telling me, that I haven't the right to care?"
"Gladja care," he said thickly. "Fine, wonderful, thanks." In the quasi nightmare of being only half asleep, he visualized the notion of man and wife as one flesh - a physical monstrosity, pathetic, curious, and helpless Siamese twins.
"Women do have insight into things that men don't have," she was saying. "We notice important things that men let go by. Kroner wanted you to break the ice about Pittsburgh tonight, and you just -"
"We'll find out what Kroner has on his mind when I call on him. Now, please, let's sleep."
"Finnerty!" she said. "He's the one who threw a monkey wrench into things. Honestly! How long is he going to stay?"
"He'll get sick of us in a couple of days, the way he gets sick of anything."
"The N.I.P.B. mustn't leave him much time to go traipsing over the country to insult old friends."
"He quit. Hasn't got a job."
She sat up in bed. "They fired him! Well, good for them."
"Quit. They offered him a raise to stay. His idea." He found himself awakened by a subject that interested him. Anita's hammering at the subject of Pittsburgh had tended to make him curl up tighter and tighter. Now he felt himself relaxing somewhat, straightening out like a man. Finnerty was a magical name again; Paul's feelings about him had swung a full circle. Morale and esprit de corps, which Paul hadn't felt in any undertaking for years, had sprung up between them in the course of the exhilarating humiliation of Checker Charley. Moreover - Paul's thoughts were coming alive as though refreshed by a cool wind - there was enchantment in what Finnerty had done, a thing almost as inconceivable and

beautifully simple as suicide: he'd quit.
"Paul . . ."
"Hmmmm?"
"Your father thought you'd be manager of Pittsburgh someday. If he were alive, nothing would make him happier than to know you got the job."
"Umm hmmmm." He remembered how Anita, shortly after their marriage, had dug up a picture of his father from a trunk and had had it enlarged and framed as her first birthday present to him. The picture was over on his bureau now, where she had put it - where he could see it the first thing in the morning and the last thing at night. She had never met Paul's father, and he hadn't said much about him to her; yet she'd built up a kind of mythology about the man that could keep her talking knowingly for hours. The myth had it that Paul's father in his youth had been just as easygoing as Paul, and that the strength that got him to the top job in the economy came in the middle years of his life - came in the years Paul was just beginning.
Kroner, too, kept alive the notion that Paul could be expected to follow in his father's footsteps. This faith of Kroner's had had a lot to do with Paul's getting to be manager of Ilium; and now that faith might get him the managership of Pittsburgh. When Paul thought about his effortless rise in the hierarchy, he sometimes, as now, felt sheepish, like a charlatan. He could handle his assignments all right, but he didn't have what his father had, what Kroner had, what Shepherd had, what so many had: the sense of spiritual importance in what they were doing; the ability to be moved emotionally, almost like a lover, by the great omnipresent and omniscient spook, the corporate personality. In short, Paul missed what made his father aggressive and great: the capacity to really give a damn.
"What are you going to do about Shepherd?" said Anita.
Paul started to curl up again. "Do? I've already done it. Nothing."

"If somebody doesn't clip his wings, he's going right over everybody's heads one of these days."
"Welcome to."
"You don't mean that."
"I mean I want to sleep."
Her bedsprings creaked as she lay down once more. She shifted her weight about restlessly for several minutes. "You know, it's a funny thing," she said.
"Hmmmm?"
"I've always noticed that when Shepherd turned his face a certain way, he looked an awful lot like somebody else. And it wasn't until tonight that I figured out who it was."
"Mmmm."
"When you see him at just the right angle, he's the spitting image of your father."
CHAPTER SEVEN
Private First Class Elmo C. Hacketts, Jr., approached the Shah of Bratpuhr, Doctor Ewing J. Halyard, of the State Department, Khashdrahr Miasma, their interpreter,

General of the Armies Milford S. Bromley, General William K. Corbett, camp commander, Major General Earl Pruitt, division commander, and their aides.
Private First Class Hacketts was in the middle of the First Squad of the Second Platoon of B Company of the First Battalion of the 427th Regiment of the 107th Infantry Division of the Ninth Corps of the Twelfth Army, and he stayed right there, and put his left foot down every time the drummer hit the bass drum.
"Dee-veesh-ee-own -" cried the Division Commander through a loudspeaker. "Reg-ee-ment -" bawled four regimental commanders.
" 'Tal-ee-own -" cried twelve battalion commanders.
"Cump-neee -" shouted thirty-six company commanders.
"Batt-reeee -" shouted twelve battery commanders.
"P'toon -" muttered a hundred and ninety-two platoon commanders.
"Hacketts," said Private First Class Hacketts to himself.
"Halt!"
And Hacketts did, hut, two.
"Ri-yut -" said the loudspeaker.
"Right, right, right, right, right, right . . ." echoed two hundred and fifty-six voices.
"Right," said Private First Class Hacketts to himself.
"Fay-yuss!"
Hacketts faced right, hut, two. And he stared into the small, bright eyes of the

Shah of Bratpuhr, spiritual leader of 6,000,000 people somewhere else.
The Shah bowed slightly from the waist.
Hacketts did not bow back because he wasn't supposed to and he wasn't going to do a goddamn thing he wasn't supposed to do and he had only twenty-three more years to go on his hitch and then he was through with the Army and the hell with it, and in twenty-three years if some sonofabitching colonel or lieutenant or general came up to him and said, "Salute me," or "Pick up that butt," or "Shine your shoes," or something like that he'd say, "Kiss my ass, sonny," and whip out the old discharge and spit in his eye and walk away laughing like crazy because his twenty-five years was up and all he had to do was hang around with the old gang in Hooker's in Evansville and wait for the old pension check and to hell with you buddy because I don't have to take no crap from nobody no more because I'm through and -
The Shah clapped his hands delightedly and continued to stare at Private First Class Hacketts, who was a huge, healthy man. "Niki Takaru!" he cried, exhaling a strong effluvium of Sumklish.
"No Takaru!" said Doctor Halyard. "Sol-dee-yers."
"No Takaru?" said the Shah in puzzlement.
"What's he say?" said General of the Armies Bromley.
"Said they're a fine bunch of slaves," said Halyard. He turned to the Shah again and waggled his finger at the small, dark man. "No Takaru. No, no, no."
Khashdrahr seemed baffled, too, and offered Halyard no help in clarifying the point.
"Sim koula Takaru, akka sahn salet?" said the Shah to Khashdrahr. Khashdrahr shrugged and looked questioningly at Halyard. "Shah says, if these

not slaves, how you get them to do what they do?"
"Patriotism," said General of the Armies Bromley sternly. "Patriotism, damn it."
"Love of country," said Halyard.
Khashdrahr told the Shah, and the Shah nodded slightly, but his look of puzzlement did not disappear. "Sidi ba - " he said tentatively.
"Eh?" said Corbett.
"Even so -" translated Khashdrahr, and he looked as doubtful as the Shah. "Lay-eft -" shouted the loudspeaker.
"Left, left, left, left, left, left . . ."
"Left," said Hacketts to himself.
And Hacketts thought of how he was going to be left alone in the barracks this week end when everybody else was out on pass because of what happened in inspection that morning after he'd mopped and squeegeed the floor and washed the windows by his bunk and tightened up his blankets and made sure the tooth-paste tube was to the left of the shaving-cream tube and the tube caps both pointed away from the aisle and that the cuff on his rolled-up socks pointed up in his footlocker and that his mess kit and mess cup and mess spoon and mess fork and mess knife and canteen were shining and that his wooden rifle was waxed and its simulated metalwork blackened and his shoes shined and that the extra pair under his bunk were laced to the top and tied and that the clothes on his hangers went: two shirts, O.D.; two pants, O.D.; three shirts, khaki; three pants, khaki; two shirts, herringbone twill; two pants, herringbone twill; field jacket; dress blouse, O.D.; raincoat, O.D.; and that all the pockets were empty and buttoned and then the inspecting officer came through and said, "Hey soldier, your fly's open and no pass for you," and -

"Fay-yuss."
"Hut, two," said Hacketts.
"For'd -"
"For'd, for'd, for'd, for'd, for'd for'd . . ." "For'd," said Hacketts to himself.
And Hacketts wondered where the hell he'd go in the next twenty-three years and thought it'd be a relief to get the hell out of the States for a while and go occupy someplace else and maybe be somebody in some of those countries instead of a bum with no money looking for an easy lay and not getting it in his own country or not getting a good lay anyway but still a pretty good lay compared to
no lay at all but anyway there was more to living than laying and he'd like a little glory by God and there might be laying and glory overseas and while there wasn't any shooting and wasn't going to be none either probably for a good long while still you got a real gun and bullets and there was a little glory in that and sure as hell it was more grownup than marching up and down with a wooden one and he'd sure like a little rank too but he knew what his I.Q. was and everybody else did too and especially the machines so that was that for twenty-three more years unless one of the machines burned out a tube and misread his card and sent him to O.C.S. and that happened now and then and there was old Mulcahy who got ahold of his card and doctored it with an icepick so the machines would think he was qualified for a big promotion but he got restricted to barracks instead for having clap twenty- six times and then transferred to the band as a trombone player when he couldn't even whistle "Hot Cross Buns" and anyway it was better than the frigging Reeks and Wrecks any day and no big worries and a nice-looking suit only the pants ought to have zippers and in only twenty-three more years he could go up to some sonofabitching general or colonel or something and say, "Kiss my -"
"Harch!"
"Boom!" went the bass drum, and down came Hacketts' left foot, and off he

went in the midst of the vast, tractable human avalanche. "Takaru," said the Shah to Khashdrahr above the din. Khashdrahr nodded and smiled agreement. "Takaru."
"What the hell am I supposed to do?" said Halyard unhappily to General of the Armies Bromley. "This guy thinks of everything he sees in terms of his own country, and his own country must be a Goddamn mess."
"Amerikka vagga bouna, ni houri manko Salim da vagga dinko," said the Shah.
"What's eating him now?" said Halyard impatiently.
"He say Americans have changed almost everything on earth," said Khashdrahr, "but it would be easier to move the Himalayas than to change the Army."
The Shah was waving goodbye to the departing troops. "Dibo, Takaru, dibo." CHAPTER EIGHT
Paul breakfasted alone, while Anita and Finnerty, in widely separated beds, slept late after a busy evening.
He had difficulty starting his Plymouth and finally realized that it was out of gas. There had been almost a half-tank the afternoon before. Finnerty, then, had gone for a long ride in it after they'd left him alone on the bed and gone to the Country Club without him.

Paul rummaged about the glove compartment for a siphon hose, and found it. He paused, sensing that something was missing. He stuck his hand into the glove compartment again and felt around inside. The old pistol was gone. He looked on the floor and searched behind the seat cushion without finding it. Perhaps some urchin had taken it while he'd been in Homestead after the whisky. He'd have to tell the police about it right away, and there'd be all sorts of forms to fill out. He tried to think of a lie that would get him out of accusations of negligence and not get anybody else in trouble.
He dipped the siphon hose into the station wagon's tank, sucked and spat, and plunged the other end of the hose into the Plymouth's empty tank. As he waited for the slow transfer to take place, he stepped out of the garage and into a warm patch of sunlight.
The bathroom window above clattered open, and he looked up to see Finnerty staring at himself in the medicine-cabinet mirror. Finnerty didn't notice Paul. He had a bent cigarette in his mouth, and there it remained while he washed his face with a cursory and random dabbing motion. The ash on the cigarette grew longer and longer, and, incredibly, longer, until the coal was almost at his lips. He removed the cigarette from his mouth, and the long ash fell. Finnerty flipped the butt in the direction of the toilet, replaced it with another, and proceeded to shave. And the ash grew longer and longer. He leaned close to the mirror, and the ash broke against it. He pressed a pimple between his thumb and forefinger, seemingly without results. Still squinting in the mirror at the reddened spot, he groped for a towel with one hand, seized one without looking at it, and swept Anita's stockings from the towel rack and into the bathtub. Finnerty, his toilet complete, said something to his reflection, grimaced, and made his exit.
Paul returned to the garage, coiled the siphon hose in the glove compartment, and drove off. The car was hesitating again - catching and slowing, catching and slowing. At any rate, it took his mind momentarily from the inconvenient matter of the missing pistol. On the long grade past the golf course, the engine seemed to be hitting on no more than three cylinders, and a squad from the Reconstruction and Reclamation Corps, putting in a spruce windbreak to the north of the

clubhouse, turned to watch the car's enervated struggle with gravity.
"Hey! Headlamp's busted," called one of the men.
Paul nodded and smiled his thanks. The car faltered, and came to a stop, just short of the summit. Paul set his emergency brake and got out. He lifted the hood and tested various connections. Tools being laid against the side of the car made a clattering noise, and a half-dozen Reeks and Wrecks stuck their heads under the hood with his.
"It's his plugs," said a small, bright-eyed, Italian-looking man.
"Aaaaaaah, in a pig's ass it's his plugs," said a tall, ruddy-faced man, the oldest of the group. "Lemme show you where the real trouble is. Here, that wrench, that's the ticket." He went to work on the fuel pump, soon had the top off of it. He pointed to the gasket beneath the cap. "There," he said soberly, like an instructor in surgery, "there's your trouble. Sucking air. I knew that the minute I heard you coming a mile off."
"Well," said Paul, "guess I'd better call somebody to come and get it. Probably take a week to order a new gasket."
"Five minutes," said the tall man. He took off his hat and, with an expression of satisfaction, ripped out the sweatband. He took a penknife from his pocket, laid the cap of the fuel pump over the sweatband, and cut out a leather disk just the right size. Then he cut out the disk's center, dropped the new gasket in place, and put the pump back together. The others watched eagerly, handed him tools, or offered to hand him tools, and tried to get into the operation wherever they could. One man scraped the green and white crystals from a battery connection. Another one went around tightening the valve caps on the tires.
"Now try her!" said the tall man.
Paul stepped on the starter, the motor caught, roared fast and slow without a miss as he pumped the accelerator. He looked up to see the profound satisfaction,

the uplift of creativity, in the faces of the Reeks and Wrecks.
Paul took out his billfold and handed two fives to the tall man.
"One'll do," he said. He folded it carefully and tucked it into the breast pocket of his blue workshirt. He smiled sardonically. "First money I've earned in five years. I oughta frame that one, eh?" He looked closely at Paul, for the first time aware of the man and not his motor. "Seems like I know you from somewhere. What's your line?"
Something made Paul want to be someone other than who he was. "Got a little grocery store," he said.
"Need a guy who's handy with his hands?"
"Not just now. Things are pretty slow."
The man was scrawling something on a piece of paper. He held the paper against the hood, and twice punched his pencil through the paper as the pencil crossed a crack. "Here - here's my name. If you've got machines, I'm the guy that can keep them going. Put in eight years in the works as a millwright before the war, and anything I don't know, I pick up fast." He handed the paper to Paul. "Where you going to put it?"
Paul slipped the paper under the transparent window in his billfold, over his driver's license. "There - right on top." He shook the man's hand and nodded to the others. "Thanks."
The motor took hold with assurance and swept Paul over the hilltop and up to the gate of the Ilium Works. A watchman waved from his pillbox, a buzzer sounded, and the iron, high-spiked gate swung open. He came now to the solid inner door, honked, and looked expectantly at a thin slit in the masonry, behind which another guard sat. The door rumbled upward, and Paul drove up to his office building.

He went up the steps two at a time - his only exercise - and unlocked two outer doors that led him into Katharine's office, and beyond that, his own.
Katharine hardly looked up when he came in. She seemed lost in melancholy, and, on the other side of the room, on the couch that was virtually his, Bud Calhoun was staring at the floor.
"Can I help?" said Paul.
Katharine sighed. "Bud wants a job."
"Bud wants a job? He's got the fourth-highest-paid job in Ilium now. I couldn't equal what he gets for running the depot. Bud, you're crazy. When I was your age, I didn't make half -"
"Ah want a job," said Bud. "Any job."
"Trying to scare the National Petroleum Council into giving you a raise? Sure, Bud, I'll make you an offer better than what you're getting, but you've got to promise not to take me up on it."
"Ah haven't got a job any more," said Bud. "Canned."
Paul was amazed. "Really? What on earth for? Moral turpitude? What about the gadget you invented for -"
"Thet's it," said Bud with an eerie mixture of pride and remorse. "Works. Does a fine job." He smiled sheepishly. "Does it a whole lot better than Ah did it."
"It runs the whole operation?" "Yup. Some gadget."
"And so you're out of a job."

"Seventy-two of us are out of jobs," said Bud. He slumped even lower in the couch. "Ouah job classification has been eliminated. Poof." He snapped his fingers.
Paul could see the personnel manager pecking out Bud's job code number on a keyboard, and seconds later having the machine deal him seventy-two cards bearing the names of those who did what Bud did for a living - what Bud's machine now did better. Now, personnel machines all over the country would be reset so as no longer to recognize the job as one suited for men. The combination of holes and nicks that Bud had been to personnel machines would no longer be acceptable. If it were to be slipped into a machine, it would come popping right back out.
"They don't need P-128's any more," said Bud bleakly, "and nothing's open above or below. Ah'd take a cut, and go back to P-129 or even P-130, but it's no dice. Everything's full up."
"Got any other numbers, Bud?" said Paul. "The only P-numbers we're authorized are -"
Katharine had the Manual open before her. She'd already looked the numbers up. "P-225 and P-226 - lubrication engineers," she said. "And Doctor Rosenau's got both of those."
"That's right, he does," said Paul. Bud was in a baffling mess, and Paul didn't see how he could help him. The machines knew the Ilium Works had its one allotted lubrication engineer, and they wouldn't tolerate a second. If Bud were recorded as a lubrication engineer and introduced into the machines, they'd throw him right out again.
As Kroner often said, eternal vigilance was the price of efficiency. And the machines tirelessly riffled through their decks again and again and again in search of foot draggers, free riders, and misfits.
"You know it isn't up to me, Bud," said Paul. "I haven't got any real say about

who's taken on."
"He knows that," said Katharine. "But he has to start somewhere, and we thought maybe you'd know of some opening, or who to see."
"Oh, it makes me sore," said Paul. "Whatever got into them to give you a Petroleum Industries assignment, anyway? You should be in design."
"Got no aptitude for it," said Bud. "Tests proved that."
That would be on his ill-fated card, too. All his aptitude-test grades were on it - irrevocably, immutable, and the card knew best. "But you do design," said Paul. "And you do it with a damn sight more imagination than the prima donnas in the Lab." The Lab was the National Research and Development Laboratory, which was actually a war-born conglomeration of all the country's research and development facilities under a single headquarters. "You're not even paid to design, and still you do a better job of it than they do. That telemetering arrangement for the pipeline, your car, and now this monster that runs the depot -"
"But the test says no," said Bud.
"So the machines say no," said Katharine. "So that's that," said Bud. "Ah guess." "You might see Kroner," said Paul.
"Ah tried, and didn't get past his secretary. Ah told her Ah was after a job, and she called up Personnel. They ran mah card through the machines while she held the phone; and then she hung up, and looked sad, and said Kroner had meetings all month."
"Maybe your university can help," said Paul. "Maybe the grading machine needed new tubes when it went over your development aptitude test." He spoke without conviction. Bud was beyond help. As an old old joke had it, the machines

had all the cards.
"Ah've written, asking them to check my grades again. No matter what Ah say, Ah get the same thing back." He threw a piece of graph paper on Katharine's desk. "Theah. Ah've written three letters, and gotten three of these back."
"Uh-huh," said Paul, looking at the familiar graph with distaste. It was a so- called Achievement and Aptitude Profile, and every college graduate got one along with his sheepskin. And the sheepskin was nothing, and the graph was everything. When time for graduation came, a machine took a student's grades and other performances and integrated them into one graph - the profile. Here Bud's graph was high for theory, there low for administration, here low for creativity, and so on, up and down across the page to the last quality - personality. In mysterious, unnamed units of measure, each graduate was credited with having a high, medium, or low personality. Bud, Paul saw, was a strong medium, as the expression went, personality-wise. When the graduate was taken into the economy, all his peaks and valleys were translated into perforations on his personnel card.
"Well, thanks anyway," said Bud suddenly, gathering up his papers, as though embarrassed at having been so weak as to bother anyone with his troubles.
"Something will turn up," said Paul. He paused at his office door. "How are you fixed for money?"
"They're keepin' me on a few more months, until all the new equipment gets installed. And Ah've got the award from the suggestion system."
"Well, thank God you got something out of it. How much?"
"Five hundred. It's the biggest one this year."
"Congratulations. Is that on your card?"
Bud held the rectangle of cardboard up to the window and squinted at the nicks

and perforations. "Think thet little devil raht there's it."
"That's for your smallpox vaccination," said Katharine, looking over his shoulder. "I've got one of those."
"No, the little triangle next to thet one."
Katharine's phone rang. "Yes?" She turned to Paul. "A Doctor Finnerty is at the gate and wants in."
"If it's just to shoot the bull, tell him to wait until late this afternoon."
"He says he wants to see the plant, not you."
"All right; let him in."
"They're shorthanded at the gate," said Katharine. "One of the guards is down with flu. What'll they do about an escort for him?"
The few visitors that did get admitted to the Ilium Works were taken about by guides, who only incidentally pointed out the wonders of the place. The guides were armed, and their main job was to see that no one got close enough to vital controls to knock them out. The system was a holdover from the war, and from the postwar riot period, but it still made sense. Every so often, antisabotage laws notwithstanding, someone got it into his head to jimmy something. It hadn't happened in Ilium for years, but Paul had heard reports from other works - reports of a visitor with a crude bomb in a briefcase in Syracuse; of an old lady in Buffalo stepping from a group of sightseers to jam her umbrella into some vital clockwork. . . . Things like that still happened, and Kroner had stipulated that visitors to plants should be watched every second. The saboteurs had come from every walk of life - including, in at least one hushed-up instance, the brass. As Kroner had said, you never could tell who was going to try it next.
"Oh, what the hell, let Finnerty in without an escort," said Paul. "He's a special case - an old Ilium man."

"The directive said no exceptions," said Katharine. She knew all of the directives - and there were thousands of them - cold.
"Let him roam."
"Yessir."
Bud Calhoun watched the interchange with far more interest than it merited, Paul thought. It was as though they had been putting on an absorbing drama. When Katharine hung up she mistook his gaze for adoration and returned it warmly.
"Six minutes," said Bud.
"Six minutes for what?" said Katharine.
"Six minutes foah nothin'," said Bud. "It took thet long to get a man in through the gate."
"Well?"
"Three of you tied up for six minutes - you two and the guard. Eighteen man minutes in all. Hell, it cost over two bucks to let him in. How many people come to the gate a year?"
"Ten a day, maybe," said Paul.
"Twenty-seven hundred and fifty-eight a year," said Katharine.
"And you pass on each one?"
"Katharine usually does," said Paul. "That's the biggest part of her job."
"At a dollah a head, thet's twenty-seven hundred dollahs a year," said Bud reproachfully. He pointed at Katharine. "This is ridiculous! If policy is iron-clad,

why not let a machine make the decisions? Policy isn't thinkin', it's a reflex. You could even build a gadget with an exception for Finnerty and still get away foah less than a hundred dollahs."
"There are all sorts of special decisions I have to make," said Katharine defensively. "I mean, all sorts of things come up that require more than routine thought - more than any old machine could do."
Bud wasn't listening. He held his palms apart, marking the size of the box being born in his imagination. "Either a visitor is a nonentity, a friend, an employee, small brass, or big brass. The guard presses one of five buttons in the top row on the box. See it? Either the visitor is sight-seein', inspectin', makin' a personal call, or here on business. The guard pushes one of four buttons in thet row. The machine has two lights, a red one for no, and a green one for yes. Whatever the policy is, bingo! - the lights tell him what to do."
"Or we could tack a memo about policy on the guardhouse wall," said Paul. Bud looked startled. "Yes," he said slowly, "you could do thet." It was clear he
thought it was a pretty drab man who would think much of that solution.
"I'm mad," said Katharine, her voice small. "You have no right to go around
saying a machine can do what I do."
"Aw, now honey - there wasn't anything personal in it."
She was crying now, and Paul slipped into his office and shut the door. "Your wife's on the phone," said Katharine brokenly on the intercom set. "All right. Yes, Anita?"
"Have you heard from Kroner?"
"No. I'll let you know if I do."

"I hope he had a good time last night." "He did - or firmly believes he did." "Is Finnerty there?"
"In the plant somewhere."
"You should see the bathroom."
"I saw it in the making."
"He had four cigarettes going, and forgot about every one of them. One on top of the medicine cabinet, one on the window sill, one on the top of the john, and one on the toothbrush rack. I couldn't eat my breakfast. He's got to go."
"I'll tell him."
"What are you going to tell Kroner?"
"I don't know yet. I don't know what he's going to say."
"Pretend I'm Kroner and I've just said, sort of casually, 'Well, Paul, the Pittsburgh spot is still open.' Then what do you say?"
This was the game she never tired of - one that took every bit of Paul's patience to play. She was forever casting herself as a person of influence and making Paul play dialogues with her. There would then be a critique, in which his responses were analyzed, edited, and polished by her. No real dialogues ever came close to her phantasies, which served chiefly to show how primitive a notion she had of men of affairs and of how business was done.
"Go on," she prodded.
"Pittsburgh, eh?" said Paul. "Holy smokes! Wow!"

"No, now, I'm serious," she said firmly. "What will you say?"
"Darling, I'm busy now."
"All right; you think it over and call me back. You know what I think you should say?"
"I'll call you back."
"All right. Goodbye. I love you."
"I love you, Anita. Goodbye."
"Doctor Shepherd is on the phone," said Katharine.
Paul picked up the now moist instrument again. "What's the matter now, Shep?"
"There's an unauthorized man in Building 57! Get the guards down here."
"Is it Finnerty?"
"An unauthorized man," said Shepherd stubbornly.
"All right. Is it an unauthorized Finnerty?"
"Yes - but that's beside the point. It makes no difference what his name is. He's roaming around without an escort, and you know how Kroner feels about that."
"I gave him permission. I know he's down there."
"You're putting me in a sweet spot."
"I don't get you."
"I mean I'm responsible for these buildings, and now you're telling me to ignore

very specific orders from Kroner. Am I supposed to be left holding the bag if word gets out?"
"Look, just forget it. It's all right. I'll take the responsibility."
"In other words, you order me to let Finnerty go through unescorted."
"Yes - that's it. I order you."
"O.K., I just wanted to make sure I had it straight. Berringer wondered about it, too, so I had him listen in."
"Berringer?" said Paul.
"Yeah!" said Berringer.
"Just keep this under your hat is all."
"You're the boss," said Berringer flatly.
"All squared away now, Shepherd?" said Paul.
"I guess. And are we to understand that you've authorized him to make drawings, too?"
"Drawings?"
"Layouts."
At this point Paul realized that his judgment had been pushed into the background by more emotional matters, but he decided it was too late to do anything about it gracefully. "Let him do what he wants. He may come up with some useful ideas. All right?"
"You're the boss," said Shepherd. "Isn't that right, Berringer?"

"He's the boss," said Berringer.
"I'm the boss," said Paul, and he let the telephone clatter into its cradle.
Bud Calhoun was still trying to patch things up with Katharine in the next office. His voice had become wheedling and penetrating. Paul could understand snatches of it.
"As far as thet goes," Bud was saying, "it wouldn't be much of a trick to replace him with a gadget." Paul had a good idea where Bud's stubby index finger was pointing.
CHAPTER NINE
Finnerty apparently found plenty to entertain himself with in the Ilium Works. He didn't appear in Paul's office until late in the afternoon. When he did arrive, Katharine Finch gave a small cry of surprise. He'd let himself in through two locked doors with keys he'd presumably failed to turn in when he left the plant for Washington years before.
Paul's door was ajar, and he heard the conversation.
"Don't go for your rod, lady. The name's Finnerty."
Katharine did have a gun somewhere in her desk, though no ammunition. That secretaries should be armed was a regulation held over from the old days, too; one Kroner thought well enough of to revive in a directive.

"You're not authorized to have those keys," she said coldly.
"Have you been crying?" said Finnerty.
"I'll see if Doctor Proteus can see you."
"What is there to cry about? See - none of the red lights are on, no buzzers going off, so all's well with the world."
"Send him in, Katharine," called Paul.
Finnerty walked in and sat on the edge of Paul's desk. "What's the matter with Miss Policy out there?"
"Broken engagement. What's on your mind?"
"Thought we'd have a couple of drinks - if you feel like listening."
"All right. Let me call Anita and tell her we'll be late for supper."
Katharine got Anita on the line, and Paul told his wife what he was up to.
"Have you thought out what you'd say to Kroner if he told you Pittsburgh was still open?"
"No - it's been a hell of a day."
"Well, I've been thinking about it, and -" "Anita, I've got to go."
"All right. I love you."
"I love you, Anita. Goodbye." He looked up at Finnerty. "O.K., let's go." He felt somehow conspiratorial, and got a small lift from the feeling. Being with Finnerty had often had that effect. Finnerty had an air of mysteriousness about him, an

implication that he knew of worlds unsuspected by anyone else - a man of unexplained absences and shadowy friends. Actually, Finnerty let Paul in on very little that was surprising, and only gave him the illusion of sharing in mysteries - if, indeed, there were any. The illusion was enough. It filled a need in Paul's life, and he went gladly for a drink with the odd man.
"Is there somewhere I can reach you?" said Katharine.
"No, I'm afraid not," said Paul. He planned to go to the Country Club, where he could be reached easily enough. But, on an impulse, he indulged his appetite for secretiveness.
Finnerty had come over in Paul's station wagon. They left it at the Works and took Paul's old car.
"Across the bridge," said Finnerty.
"I thought we'd go to the club."
"This is Thursday, isn't it? Do the civic managers still have their big dinner there on Thursdays?"
The civic managers were the career administrators who ran the city. They lived on the same side of the river as the managers and engineers of the Ilium Works, but the contact between the two groups was little more than perfunctory and, traditionally, suspicious. The schism, like so many things, dated back to the war, when the economy had, for efficiency's sake, become monolithic. The question had arisen: who was to run it, the bureaucrats, the heads of business and industry, or the military? Business and bureaucracy had stuck together long enough to overwhelm the military and had since then worked side by side, abusively and suspiciously, but, like Kroner and Baer, each unable to do a whole job without the other.
"Not much changes in Ilium," said Paul. "The civic managers will be there all right. But if we get over there this early, we can get a booth in the bar."

"I'd rather share a bed in a leprosarium."
"All right; over the bridge it is. Let me put on something more comfortable." Paul stopped his car just short of the bridge, and traded his coat for the jacket in the trunk.
"I wondered if you still did that. That's even the same jacket, isn't it?"
"Habit."
"What would a psychiatrist say about it?"
"He'd say it was a swat at my old man, who never went anywhere without a Homburg and a double-breasted suit."
"Think he was a bastard?"
"How do I know what my father was? The editor of Who's Who knows about as much as I do. The guy was hardly ever home."
They were driving through Homestead now. Paul suddenly snapped his fingers in recollection and turned down a side street. "I've got to stop by police headquarters for a minute. Mind waiting?"
"What's the trouble?"
"Almost slipped my mind. Somebody swiped the gun from the glove compartment, or it fell out, or something."
"Keep driving."
"It'll just take a minute, I hope." "I took it."

"You? Why?"
"Had an idea I might want to shoot myself." He said it matter-of-factly. "Even had the barrel in my mouth for a while, and the hammer back - for maybe ten minutes."
"Where is it now?"
"Bottom of the Iroquois somewhere." He licked his lips. "Tasted oil and metal all through dinner. Turn left."
Paul had learned to listen with outward calm when Finnerty spoke of his morbid moments. When he was with Finnerty he liked to pretend that he shared the man's fantastic and alternately brilliant or black inner thoughts - almost as though he were discontent with his own relative tranquility. Finnerty had spoken dispassionately of suicide often; but, seemingly, he did it because he got pleasure from savoring the idea. If he'd felt driven to kill himself, he would have been dead long ago.
"You think I'm insane?" said Finnerty. Apparently he wanted more of a reaction than Paul had given him.
"You're still in touch. I guess that's the test."
"Barely - barely."
"A psychiatrist could help. There's a good man in Albany."
Finnerty shook his head. "He'd pull me back into the center, and I want to stay as close to the edge as I can without going over. Out on the edge you see all kinds of things you can't see from the center." He nodded. "Big, undreamed-of things - the people on the edge see them first." He laid his hand on Paul's shoulder, and Paul fought a reflex that suddenly made him want to get as far away as possible. "Here's the place we want," said Finnerty. "Park here."

They had circled several blocks and were back at the head of the bridge, by the same saloon Paul had visited for the whisky. Paul, with uncomfortable memories of the place, wanted to go somewhere else, but Finnerty was already out of the car and on his way in.
Gratefully, Paul saw that the street and saloon were almost deserted, so there was a good chance he wouldn't see any of the people who'd watched his confusion the day before. No hydrants were going, but from far away, from the direction of Edison Park, came faint band music - a clue as to where everyone might be.
"Hey, your headlamp's busted," said a man, peering through the doorway of the saloon.
Paul passed him quickly, without getting a good look at him. "Thanks."
Only when he'd overtaken Finnerty in the damp twilight of the inside did he turn for another look at the man - at his short, broad back. The man's neck was thick and red, and glinting behind his ears were the hooks of steel spectacles. It was the same man, Paul realized, the same man who had been sitting by Rudy Hertz - the man whose son had just turned eighteen. Paul remembered that he had promised this man, in the panic of the moment, to speak to Matheson, the placement director, about the son. Perhaps he hadn't recognized Paul. Paul slid into a booth with Finnerty, in the darkest corner of the room.
The man turned and smiled, his eyes lost behind the milky, thick lenses of his glasses. "You're entirely welcome, Doctor Proteus," he called. "It isn't often that anyone can do a favor for anyone in your position."
Paul pretended he hadn't heard, and turned his attention to Finnerty, who dug a spoon around and around and around in a sugar bowl. Some of the white grains spilled over, and Finnerty absently drew the mathematical symbol for infinity in them with the tip of his finger.
"Funny what I expected from this reunion, what I guess everybody expects from affectionate reunions. I thought seeing you would somehow clear up all sorts of

problems, get me thinking straight," said Finnerty. He had a candor about his few emotional attachments that Paul found disquieting. He used words to describe his feelings that Paul could never bring himself to use when speaking of a friend: love, affection, and other words generally consigned to young and inexperienced lovers. It wasn't homosexual; it was an archaic expression of friendship by an undisciplined man in an age when most men seemed in mortal fear of being mistaken for pansies for even a split second.
"I guess I looked forward to some sort of rebirth too," said Paul.
"But you find out quick enough that old friends are old friends, and nothing more - no wiser, no more help than anyone else. Well, what the hell, that doesn't mean I'm not damned pleased to see you again."
"No booth service until eight," called the bartender.
"I'll get them," said Finnerty. "What'll it be?"
"Bourbon - plain water. Make it a weak one. Anita's expecting us in an hour." Finnerty came back with two strong highballs.
"Is there any water in it?" said Paul.
"There was enough water in it as it was." Finnerty swept the sugar from the table with his palm. "It's the loneliness," he said, as though picking up the thread of a conversation that had been interrupted. "It's the loneliness, the not belonging anywhere. I just about went crazy with loneliness here in the old days, and I figured things would be better in Washington, that I'd find a lot of people I admired and belonged with. Washington is worse, Paul - Ilium to the tenth power. Stupid, arrogant, self-congratulatory, unimaginative, humorless men. And the women, Paul - the dull wives feeding on the power and glory of their husbands."
"Oh, now listen, Ed," said Paul, smiling, "they're good-hearted people."

"Who isn't? I'm not, I guess. Their superiority is what gets me, this damn hierarchy that measures men against machines. It's a pretty unimpressive kind of man that comes out on top."
"Here come some more!" called the man with the thick glasses from the door. From far off came the sound of marching, and the thump of a bass drum. The noise came closer, a whistle blew, and a brass band exploded with music.
Paul and Finnerty hurried to the door.
"Who are they?" shouted Finnerty at the man in thick glasses.
The man smiled. "Don't think they want anybody to know. Secret."
At the head of the procession, surrounded by four trumpeters dressed as Arabs, was a florid, serious old man in a turban and pantaloons, carefully cradling in his arms an elephant tusk inscribed with mysterious symbols. Behind him came an enormous square banner, held aloft by a staggering giant, and steadied in the wind, maypole fashion, by a dozen Arabs tugging at colored ropes. The banner, which from a distance had given promise of explaining all, was embroidered with four lines of long-forgotten - or perhaps recently invented - script, and with four green owls against a field of apricot. After it came the band, which carried out the Arabian motif. There were owl-bearing pennants hung from the brasses, and the banner's message was repeated, in case anyone had missed it, on a cart-borne bass drum perhaps twelve feet in diameter.
"Hooray," said the man in thick glasses mildly.
"Why are you cheering?" said Finnerty.
"Don't you think something's called for? Cheering Luke Lubbock mostly. He's the one with the tusk."
"Doing a swell job," said Finnerty. "What's he represent?"

"Secret. He couldn't be it any more, if he told." "Looks like he's about the most important thing." "Next to the tusk."
The parade turned a corner, the whistle blew again, and the music stopped. Down the street, another whistle shrilled, and the whole business began again as a company of kilted bagpipers swung into view.
"Parade competition down at the park," said the man with the glasses. "They'll be coming by for hours. Let's go in and have a drink."
"On us?" said Finnerty.
"Who else?"
"Wait," said Paul, "this should be interesting."
An automobile had just come from the north side of the river, and its driver honked irritably at the marchers, who blocked his way. The horn and the bagpipes squalled at one another until the last rank of marchers had turned down the side street. Paul recognized the driver too late to get out of sight. Shepherd looked at him with puzzlement and mild censure, waved vaguely, and drove on. Peering through the back window were the small eyes of Fred Berringer.
Paul refused to attach any importance to the incident. He sat down in the booth with the short, heavy man, while Finnerty went after more drinks.
"How's your son?" said Paul.
"Son, Doctor? Oh, oh, of course - my son. You said you were going to talk to Matheson about him, didn't you? What did the good Matheson say?"
"I haven't seen him yet. I've been meaning to, but the opportunity hasn't come

up."
The man nodded. "Matheson, Matheson - beneath that cold exterior, there beats a heart of ice. Well, it's just as well. There's no need to talk to him now. My boy's all set."
"Oh, really? I'm glad to hear that."
"Yes, he hanged himself this morning in the kitchen." "Lord!"
"Yes, I told him what you said yesterday, and it was so discouraging that he just gave up. It's the best way. There are too many of us. Upps! You're spilling your drink!"
"What's going on here?" said Finnerty.
"I was just telling the Doctor here that my son couldn't find any good reason for being alive, so he quit it this morning - with an ironing cord."
Paul covered his eyes. "Jesus, oh Jesus I'm sorry."
The man looked up at Finnerty with a mixture of bewilderment and exasperation. "Now, hell, why'd I have to go and do that? Have a drink, Doctor, and pull yourself together. I haven't got a son, never had one." He shook Paul's arm. "Hear me? It's a lot of crap."
"Then why don't I bust your stupid head open?" said Paul, half standing in the booth.
"Because you're wedged in too tightly," said Finnerty, pushing him back down. He set the drinks before them.
"Sorry," said the man to Paul. "I just wanted to see how one of those

superbrains worked. What's your I.Q., Doctor?"
"It's a matter of record. Why don't you go look it up?" It was a matter of record. Everyone's I.Q., as measured by the National Standard General Classification Test, was on public record - in Ilium, at the police station. "Go on," he said acidly, "experiment with me some more. I love it."
"You picked a bad specimen if you're out to find out what the rest of them across the river are like," said Finnerty. "This guy's an odd one."
"You're an engineer too."
"Until I quit."
The man looked surprised. "You know, this is really very illuminating, if you're not kidding me. There are malcontents, eh?"
"Two that we know of," said Finnerty.
"Well, you know, in a way I wish I hadn't met you two. It's much more convenient to think of the opposition as a nice homogeneous, dead-wrong mass. Now I've got to muddy my thinking with exceptions."
"How have you got yourself typed," said Paul, "as an upstate Socrates?"
"The name is Lasher, the Reverend James J. Lasher, R-127 and SS-55. Chaplain, Reconstruction and Reclamation Corps."
"The first number's for Protestant minister. What's the second, that SS thing?" said Finnerty.
"Social scientist," said Lasher. "The 55 designates an anthropologist with a master's degree."
"And what does an anthropologist do these days?" said Paul.

"Same thing a supernumerary minister does - becomes a public charge, a bore, or possibly a rum-dum, or a bureaucrat." He looked back and forth between Paul and Finnerty. "You, I know, Doctor Proteus. And you?"
"Finnerty, Edward Francis Finnerty, Ph.D., one-time EC-002."
"There's a collector's item - a double-o-two number!" said Lasher. "I've known several single-o men, but never a double-o. I guess you're the highest classification I ever had friendly words with. If the Pope set up shop in this country, he'd be only one notch up - in the R-numbers of course. He'd be an R-001. I heard somewhere that the number was being held for him, over the objections of Episcopal bishops who want R-001 themselves. Delicate business."
"They could give him a negative number," said Paul.
"That the Episcopalians would go along with. My glass is empty."
"What was this business about the people across the river being the opposition?" said Paul. "You think they do the Devil's work, do you?"
"That's pretty strong. I will say you've shown up what thin stuff clergymen were peddling, most of them. When I had a congregation before the war, I used to tell them that the life of their spirit in relation to God was the biggest thing in their lives, and that their part in the economy was nothing by comparison. Now, you people have engineered them out of their part in the economy, in the market place, and they're finding out - most of them - that what's left is just about zero. A good bit short of enough, anyway. My glass is empty."
Lasher sighed. "What do you expect?" he said. "For generations they've been built up to worship competition and the market, productivity and economic usefulness, and the envy of their fellow men - and boom! it's all yanked out from under them. They can't participate, can't be useful any more. Their whole culture's been shot to hell. My glass is empty."

"I just had it filled again," said Finnerty.
"Oh, so you did." Lasher sipped thoughtfully. "These displaced people need something, and the clergy can't give it to them - or it's impossible for them to take what the clergy offers. The clergy says it's enough, and so does the Bible. The people say it isn't enough, and I suspect they're right."
"If they were so fond of the old system, how come they were so cantankerous about their jobs when they had them?" said Paul.
"Oh, this business we've got now - it's been going on for a long time now, not just since the last war. Maybe the actual jobs weren't being taken from the people, but the sense of participation, the sense of importance was. Go to the library sometime and take a look at magazines and newspapers clear back as far as World War II. Even then there was a lot of talk about know-how winning the war of production - know how, not people, not the mediocre people running most of the machines. And the hell of it was that it was pretty much true. Even then, half the people or more didn't understand much about the machines they worked at or the things they were making. They were participating in the economy all right, but not in a way that was very satisfying to the ego. And then there was all this let's-not- shoot-Father-Christmas advertising."
"How's that?" said Paul.
"You know - those ads about the American system, meaning managers and engineers, that made America great. When you finished one, you'd think the managers and engineers had given America everything: forests, rivers, minerals, mountains, oil - the works.
"Strange business," said Lasher. "This crusading spirit of the managers and engineers, the idea of designing and manufacturing and distributing being sort of a holy war: all that folklore was cooked up by public relations and advertising men hired by managers and engineers to make big business popular in the old days, which it certainly wasn't in the beginning. Now, the engineers and managers believe with all their hearts the glorious things their forebears hired people to say

about them. Yesterday's snow job becomes today's sermon."
"Well," said Paul, "you'll have to admit they did some pretty wonderful things during the war."
"Of course!" said Lasher. "What they did for the war effort really was something like crusading; but" - he shrugged - "so was what everybody else did for the war effort. Everybody behaved wonderfully. Even I."
"You keep giving the managers and engineers a bad time," said Paul. "What about the scientists? It seems to me that -"
"Outside the discussion," said Lasher impatiently. "They simply add to knowledge. It isn't knowledge that's making trouble, but the uses it's put to."
Finnerty shook his head admiringly. "So what's the answer right now?"
"That is a frightening question," said Lasher, "and also my favorite rationalization for drinking. This is my last drink, incidentally; I don't like being drunk. I drink because I'm scared - just a little scared, so I don't have to drink much. Things, gentlemen, are ripe for a phony Messiah, and when he comes, it's sure to be a bloody business."
"Messiah?"
"Sooner or later someone's going to catch the imagination of these people with some new magic. At the bottom of it will be a promise of regaining the feeling of participation, the feeling of being needed on earth - hell, dignity. The police are bright enough to look for people like that, and lock them up under the antisabotage laws. But sooner or later someone's going to keep out of their sight long enough to organize a following."
Paul had been watching his expression closely, and decided that, far from being in horror of the impending uprising, Lasher was rather taken by the idea. "And then what?" said Paul. He picked up his glass and rattled the ice cubes against his

teeth. He'd finished his second drink and wanted another.
Lasher shrugged. "Oh, hell - prophecy's a thankless business, and history has a way of showing us what, in retrospect, are very logical solutions to awful messes."
"Prophesy anyway," said Finnerty.
"Well - I think it's a grave mistake to put on public record everyone's I.Q. I think the first thing the revolutionaries would want to do is knock off everybody with an I.Q. over 110, say. If I were on your side of the river, I'd have the I.Q. books closed and the bridges mined."
"Then the 100's would go after the 110's, the 90's after the 100's, and so on," said Finnerty.
"Maybe. Something like that. Things are certainly set up for a class war based on conveniently established lines of demarkation. And I must say that the basic assumption of the present setup is a grade-A incitement to violence: the smarter you are, the better you are. Used to be that the richer you were, the better you were. Either one is, you'll admit, pretty tough for the have-not's to take. The criterion of brains is better than the one of money, but" - he held his thumb and forefinger about a sixteenth of an inch apart - "about that much better."
"It's about as rigid a hierarchy as you can get," said Finnerty. "How's somebody going to up his I.Q.?"
"Exactly," said Lasher. "And it's built on more than just brain power - it's built on special kinds of brain power. Not only must a person be bright, he must be bright in certain approved, useful directions: basically, management or engineering."
"Or marry someone who's bright," said Finnerty.
"Sex can still batter down all sorts of social structures - you're right," Lasher agreed.

"Big tits will get you in anywhere," said Finnerty.
"Well, it's comforting to know that something hasn't changed in centuries, isn't it?" Lasher smiled.
There was a mild commotion at the bar, and Lasher leaned out of the booth to see what was going on. "Hey," he called, "Luke Lubbock - come over here."
Luke, the serious old man who had borne the elephant tusk at the head of the parade, came over from the bar, gulping his beer as he came, and looking nervously at the clock. He was perspiring and short of breath, like a man who'd been running. He had a large parcel wrapped in brown paper under his arm.
Paul welcomed the opportunity to study Luke's magnificent costume more closely. Like a stage set, it was designed to impress at a distance. Nearness showed that the splendor was a fraud of cheap cloth, colored glass, and radiator paint. At his waist was a jeweled poniard, basically plywood, with an owl on its hilt. Counterfeit rubies as big as robin's eggs, mounted in golden sunbursts, were hung at random on the front of his lavender blouse. About the cuffs of his blouse and jade-green pantaloons were circlets of tiny bells, and - again - perched at the upturned tips of his golden slippers were a pair of miniature owls.
"Luke, you look wonderful," said Lasher.
Luke's eyes flashed agreement, but he was an important man, in too much of a hurry to respond to flattery. "It's too much, too much," he said. "Now I got to change so's I can march with the Parmesans. They're waiting up the street, and I got to change, and some damn fool's locked hisself in the can, so I got no place to change." He looked around quickly. "Would you let me do it in the booth, and kind of screen me?"
"You bet," said Finnerty.
They let Luke squirm into the shadows of the booth, and Paul found himself

keeping a playful, leering lookout for women.
Muttering, Luke started to disrobe. He dropped his belt and poniard on the table, where they struck with an impressive thump. The glittering heap grew and grew, until, from a distance, it might have looked good enough to be at the end of a rainbow.
Paul relaxed his vigil for an instant to glance at Luke, and he was shocked at the transformation. The man was in his underwear now, ragged and drab, and none- too-clean. And Luke had somehow shrunk and saddened and was knobbed and scarred and scrawny. He was subdued now, talking not at all, and meeting no one's eyes. Almost desperately, hungrily, he ripped open the brown parcel and took from it a pale-blue uniform, encrusted with gold embroidery and piped in scarlet. He pulled on the trousers and black boots, and the jacket with its ponderous epaulets. Luke was growing again, getting his color back, and as he strapped on his saber he was talkative again - important and strong. He bundled up his other costume in the brown paper, left the parcel with the bartender, and rushed into the street, waving naked steel.
A whistle blew, and the Parmesans fell in behind him, to be led to glorious exploits in a dreamworld those on the sidewalk could only speculate about.
"Harmless magic: good, old-fashioned bunkum," laughed Lasher. "Talk about your hierarchies: Luke, with an I.Q. of about 80, has titles that'd make Charlemagne sound like a cook's helper. But that sort of business wears thin pretty quick for everybody but a few Luke Lubbocks. The lodge turnover is terrific." He stood. "No more for me, thanks." He rapped on the table. "But someday, gentlemen, someone is going to give them something to sink their teeth in - probably you, and maybe me."
"We'll give them something to sink their teeth in?" said Paul. He noticed he was getting somewhat thick of speech.
"You'll be what they'll get to sink their teeth in." Lasher laid his hand on Paul's shoulder. "One more thing: I want to be sure you understand that men really do

worry about what there is for their sons to live for; and some sons do hang themselves."
"And this is as old as life itself," said Paul.
"Well?" said Lasher.
"Well, it's too bad. I'm certainly not overjoyed about it." "You figure to be the new Messiah?" said Finnerty.
"Sometimes I think I'd like to be - if only in self-defense. Also, it'd be a swell way to get rich. Trouble is, I can be sold or unsold on anything too easily. I enjoy being talked into something. Pretty shaky outlook for a Messiah. Besides, who ever heard of a short, fat, middle-aged Messiah with bad eyesight? And I haven't got that common touch. Frankly, the masses give me a pain in the tail, and I guess I show it." He made clucking sounds with his tongue. "I'm going to get myself a uniform, so I'll know what I think and stand for."
"Or two - like Luke Lubbock," said Paul.
"All right, two. But that's the absolute maximum any self-respecting human being ought to permit himself." He sipped from Paul's highball. "Well, good night."
"Have another," said Finnerty.
"No - I mean it. I don't like getting tight."
"All right. I want to see you again, anyway. Where can I find you?"
"Here, most likely." He wrote an address on a paper napkin. "Or try here." He looked closely at Finnerty. "You know, wash your face, and you might do real well as a Messiah."

Finnerty looked startled, and didn't laugh.
Lasher picked up a hard-boiled egg at the bar, crackled its shell by rolling it along the keyboard of the player piano, and walked out into the evening.
"Magnificent, wasn't he?" said Finnerty raptly. His gaze returned reluctantly from the door to Paul. Paul saw his eyes take on a glaze of ennui, of letdown, and he knew that Finnerty had found a new friend who made Paul look very pale indeed.
"Your orders, gentlemen?" said a short, dark waitress, with a hard, trim figure. She looked at the television screen while waiting for them to reply. The sound never seemed to be turned on, only the video. An anxious young man in a long sports coat jiggled up and down on the screen, and blew through a saxophone.
The saloon was filling up, and many of the flamboyantly and enigmatically costumed marchers had come in for refreshment, giving the place an atmosphere of international unrest and intrigue.
One small young man in mufti, with immensely wise and large eyes, leaned back against the table in Paul's and Ed's booth and watched the television screen with what seemed to be more than routine interest. He turned casually to Paul. "What you think he's playing?"
"Beg pardon?"
"The guy on television - what's the name of the song?"
"I can't hear it."
"I know," he said impatiently, "that's the point. Guess from just seeing."
Paul frowned at the screen for a moment, tried to jiggle as the saxophonist jiggled, and to fit a song to the rhythm. Suddenly his mind clicked, and the tune was flowing in his imagination as surely as though the sound had been turned on.

" 'Rosebud.' The song is 'Rosebud,' " said Paul.
The young man smiled quietly. " 'Rosebud,' eh? Just for laughs, want to put a little money on it? I'll say it's - um, ah, well - 'Paradise Moon,' maybe."
"How much?"
The young man studied Paul's jacket, and then, with slight surprise, his expensive trousers and shoes. "Ten?"
"Ten, by God. 'Rosebud'!"
"What's he say it is, Alfy?" called the bartender.
"He says 'Rosebud,' I say 'Paradise Moon.' Turn her on."
The last notes of "Paradise Moon" blared from the loudspeaker, the saxophonist grimaced and backed off the screen. The bartender winked admiringly at Alfy and turned down the volume again.
Paul handed Alfy the ten. "Congratulations."
Alfy sat down in the booth without being invited. He looked at the screen, blew smoke through his nose, and closed his eyes reflectively. "What you figure they're playing now?"
Paul decided to buckle down and get his money back. He looked hard at the screen, and took his time. The whole orchestra was in view now, and, once he thought he'd picked up the thread of a melody, he looked from musician to musician for confirmation. "An old, old one," he said. " 'stardust.' "
"For ten it's 'stardust'?" "For ten."

"What is it, Alfy?" called the bartender.
Alfy jerked a thumb at Paul. "This kid's fair. He says 'stardust,' and I can see where he gets it. He's right about the oldy, but he picked the wrong one. 'mood Indigo' is the name." He looked sympathetically at Paul. "It's a tough one all right." He snapped his fingers.
The bartender twisted the volume knob, and "Mood Indigo" filled the air.
"Wonderful!" said Paul, and he turned to Finnerty for confirmation. Finnerty was lost in his own thoughts, and his lips moved slightly, as though in an imaginary conversation. Despite the noise and excitement of Alfy's performances, he apparently hadn't noticed them.
"A knack," said Alfy modestly. "Like anything else: you know, keep at it long enough, and you surprise yourself. Couldn't tell you - in real detail, you know - how I did it. Gets to be another sense - you kind of feel it."
The bartender, the waitress, and several other bystanders had fallen silent in order to hear Alfy's words.
"Oh, there's some tricks," said Alfy. "Watch the bass drum quiver instead of what the guy's doing with the traps. Get the basic beat that way. Lot of people watch the traps, see, and the guy may be going off on a tangent. Things like that you can learn. And, you gotta know instruments - how they make a high note, how they make a low one. But that ain't enough." His voice took on a respectful, almost reverent tone. "It's kind of spooky what else it takes."
"He does classical stuff too," said the bartender eagerly. "Oughta see him with the Boston Pops on Sunday nights."
Alfy ground out his cigarette impatiently. "Yeah, yeah - classics," he said, frowning, mercilessly airing his inner doubts about himself. "Yeah, I was lucky last Sunday when you saw me. But I ain't got the repertory for that. I'm over my head, and you can't pick up in the middle of the classics. And you play hell

building a repertory of that stuff, when you gotta wait sometimes a year, two years, to see the thing twice." He rubbed his eyes, as though remembering hours of concentration before a video screen. "You gotta see 'em plugged and plugged and plugged. And all the time new ones - and lots of 'em steals from oldies."
"Tough, eh?" said Paul.
Alfy raised his eyebrows. "Yeah, it's tough - like anything else. Tough to be the best."
"There's punks trying to break in, but they can't touch Alfy," said the bartender.
"They're good in their specialties - usually the quick killings," said Alfy. "You know, the minute a new number's out, they try and cash in on it before everybody's seen it. But none of 'em's making a living at it, I'll tell you that. Got no repertory, and that's what it takes to keep going day in, day out."
"This is your living?" said Paul. He hadn't succeeded in keeping the sense of whimsey out of his voice, and quick resentment was all about him.
"Yeah," said Alfy coldly, "this is my living. A buck here, ten cents there -"
"Twenty bucks here," said Paul. This seemed to soften most of the expressions.
The bartender was anxious to maintain a friendly atmosphere. "Alfy started out as a pool shark, eh, Alfy?" he said briskly.
"Yeah. But the field's crowded. Maybe room for ten, twenty guys going at it steady. There must of been a couple of hundred of us trying to make a go of it with pool. The Army and the Reeks and Wrecks were on my tail, so I started looking around for something else. Funny, without thinking much about it, I'd been doing this since I was a kid. It's what I should of gone into right from the first. Reeks and Wrecks," he said contemptuously, apparently recalling how close he came to being drafted into the R and R Corps. "Army!" He spat.

A couple of soldiers and a large number of men from the Reeks and Wrecks heard him insult their organizations, and they did nothing but nod, sharing his contempt.
Alfy looked at the screen. " 'Baby, Dear Baby, Come Home With Me Now,' " he said. "A newy." He hurried to the bar to study the movements of the band more closely. The bartender rested his hand on the volume knob and watched anxiously for Alfy's signals. Alfy would raise an eyebrow, and the bartender would turn up the volume. It would be on for a few seconds, Alfy would nod, and off it would go again.
"What'll it be, boys?" said the waitress.
"Hmmm?" said Paul, still fascinated by Alfy. "Oh - bourbon and water." He was experimenting with his eyes, and finding that they didn't work too well.
"Irish and water," said Finnerty. "Hungry?"
"Yeah - give us a couple of hard-boiled eggs, please." Paul felt wonderful, at one with the saloon, and, by extension, with all humanity and the universe. He felt witty, and on the verge of a splendid discovery. Then he remembered. "Holy God! Anita!"
"Where?"
"At home - waiting." Unsteadily, mumbling cheery greetings to all he passed, Paul got to the telephone booth, which reeked with a previous occupant's cigar smoke. He called home.
"Look, Anita - I won't be home for supper. Finnerty and I got to talking, and -" "It's all right, dear. Shepherd told me not to wait."
"Shepherd?"

"Yes - he saw you down there, and told me you didn't look like a man on his way home."
"When did you see him?"
"He's here now. He came to apologize for last night. Everything's all ironed out, and we're having a very nice time."
"Oh? You accepted his apology?"
"Let's say we arrived at an understanding. He's worried that you'll turn in a bad report on him to Kroner, and I did everything I could to make him think you were considering it seriously."
"Oh, now listen, I'm not going to turn in any bad report on that -"
"It's the way he plays. Fight fire with fire. I got him to agree not to spread any more tales about you. Aren't you proud of me?"
"Yeah, sure."
"Now you've got to keep working on him, keep him worried."
"Uh-huh."
"Now, you just go ahead and have a good time. It does you good to get away now and then."
"Yes'm."
"And please try to get Finnerty to move out." "Yes'm."
"Do you think I nag you?"

"No'm."
"Paul! Would you like it if I didn't take an interest?"
"No'm."
"All right. You just go ahead and get drunk. It'll do you good. Eat something, though. I love you."
"I love you." He hung up, and turned to face the world through the steamy window of the phone booth. Along with his feeling of dizziness was a feeling of newness - the feeling of fresh, strong identity growing within him. It was a generalized love - particularly for the little people, the common people, God bless them. All his life they had been hidden from him by the walls of his ivory tower. Now, this night, he had come among them, shared their hopes and disappointments, understood their yearnings, discovered the beauty of their simplicities and their earthy values. This was real, this side of the river, and Paul loved these common people, and wanted to help, and let them know they were loved and understood, and he wanted them to love him too.
When he got back to the booth, two young women were sitting with Finnerty, and Paul loved them instantly.
"Paul - I'd like you to meet my cousin Agnes from Detroit," said Finnerty. He rested his hand on the knee of a fat and determinedly cheerful redhead sitting next to him. "And this," he said, pointing across the table at a tall, homely brunette, "is your cousin Agnes."
"How do you do, Agnes and Agnes."
"Are you as crazy as he is?" said the brunette suspiciously. "If you are, I'm going home."
"Good, clean, fun-loving American type, Paul is," said Finnerty.

"Tell me about yourself," said Paul expansively.
"My name isn't Agnes, it's Barbara," said the brunette. "And she's Martha."
"What'll it be?" said the waitress.
"Double Scotch and water," said Martha.
"Same," said Barbara.
"That'll be four dollars for the ladies' drinks," said the waitress.
Paul handed her a five.
"Holy smokes!" said Barbara, staring at the identification card in Paul's billfold. "This guy's an engineer!"
"You from across the river?" said Martha to Finnerty.
"Deserters."
Both girls moved away, and with their backs against the wall of the booth, they looked at Paul and Finnerty with puzzlement. "I'll be go to hell," said Martha at last. "What you want to talk about? I had algebra in high school."
"We're just plain folks," said Paul. "What'll it be?" said the waitress. "Scotch, double," said Martha. "Same," said Barbara.
"Come here, damn it," said Finnerty, pulling Martha to his side again.
Barbara still kept her distance from Paul and looked at him distastefully. "What

are you doing over here - having a good laugh at the dumb bunnies?" "I like it over here," said Paul earnestly.
"You're making fun of me."
"Honest, I'm not at all. Did I say anything that sounded like I was?" "You're thinking it," she said.
"That'll be four dollars for the ladies' drinks," said the waitress.
Paul paid again. He didn't know what to say next to Barbara. He didn't want to make a pass at her. He simply wanted her to be friendly and companionable, and to see that he wasn't a stuffed shirt at all. Far from it.
"They don't castrate you when they give you an engineering degree," Finnerty was saying to Martha.
"They might as well," said Martha. "Some of the kids that come over from across the river - you'd think they were."
"After our time," said Finnerty. "I meant they didn't use to."
To build up more of an atmosphere of intimacy, rapport, Paul casually picked up one of the shot-glasses before Barbara and sipped at it. It then dawned on him that the shots of expensive Scotch, which had been arriving as though by bucket brigade, were no more than brown water. "Smooth," he said.
"So what am I supposed to do, have a nervous breakdown?" said Barbara. "Let me out."
"No, please, that's all right. Just talk to me is all. I understand." "What'll it be?" said the waitress.

"Scotch, double, with water," said Paul.
"Trying to make me feel bad?"
"I want you to feel good. If you need money, I want to help." He meant it with all his heart.
"Suit yourself, plunger," said Barbara. She looked restlessly about the room.
Paul's eyelids grew heavier and heavier and heavier as he tried to think of the phrase that would break the ice with Barbara. He folded his arms on the table top and, for just an instant's rest, he laid his head on them.
When he opened his eyes again, Finnerty was shaking him, and Barbara and Martha had gone. Finnerty helped him out onto the sidewalk for air.
The out-of-doors was a nightmare of light and noise, and Paul could see that some sort of torchlight parade was under way. He burst into a cheer as he recognized Luke Lubbock, who was being borne by in a sedan chair.
When Finnerty had established him back in the booth, a speech, the nugget of the whole evening's nebulous impressions, composed itself in Paul's mind, took on form and polish inspirationally, with no conscious effort on his part. He had only to deliver it to make himself the new Messiah and Ilium the new Eden. The first line was at his lips, tearing at them to be set free.
Paul struggled to stand on the bench, and from there he managed to step to the table. He held his hands over his head for attention.
"Friends, my friends!" he cried. "We must meet in the middle of the bridge!" The frail table suddenly lurched beneath him. He heard the splitting of wood, cheers, and again - darkness.
The next voice was the bartender's. "Come on - closing time. Gotta lock up," said the bartender gently.

Paul sat up and groaned. His mouth was dry, and his head ached. The table was gone from the booth, and there were only cracked plaster and boltheads to show where it had once been moored to the wall.
The saloon seemed deserted, but the air was filled with a painful clangor. Paul peered out of the booth and saw a man mopping the floor. Finnerty sat at the player piano, savagely improvising on the brassy, dissonant antique.
Paul shuffled over to the piano and laid his hand on Finnerty's shoulder. "Let's go home."
Finnerty continued to lash at the keys. "Staying!" he shouted above the music. "Go home!"
"Where you going to stay?"
Then Paul saw Lasher, who sat unobtrusively in the shadows, leaning against the wall in a chair. Lasher tapped his thick chest. "With me," he said with his lips.
Finnerty shook off Paul's hand and wouldn't answer.
"O.K.," said Paul fuzzily. "So long."
He stumbled into the street and found his car. He paused for a moment to listen to Finnerty's hellish music echoing from the façades of the sleeping town. The bartender stood respectfully at a distance from the frenzied pianist, afraid to interrupt.
CHAPTER TEN

After the night with Finnerty and Lasher, and with the good little people, Alfy, Luke Lubbock, the bartender, and Martha and Barbara, Doctor Paul Proteus slept until late in the afternoon. When he awoke, Anita was out of the house, and with a dry mouth, burning eyes, and a stomach that felt as though it were stuffed with cat fur, he went to his responsible post in the Ilium Works.
The eyes of Doctor Katharine Finch, his secretary, were bloodshot for another reason, a reason so all-consuming that she took little note of the condition of Paul.
"Doctor Kroner called," she said mechanically. "Oh? He wants me to call back?"
"Doctor Shepherd took the message."
"He did, eh? Anything else?"
"The police?"
"Police? What did they want?"
"Doctor Shepherd took the message."
"All right." Everything seemed hot and bright and soporific. He sat on the edge of her desk, and rested. "Get Dog-Eat-Dog on the phone."
"That won't be necessary. He's in your office now."
Wondering bleakly what grievance or slight or infraction of rules Shepherd wanted to see him about, Paul pushed open his office door gingerly.
Shepherd sat at Paul's desk, absorbed in signing a stack of reports. He didn't look up. Briskly, his eyes still on the papers, he flicked on the intercom set. "Miss

Finch -" "Yessir."
"On this monthly security report: did Doctor Proteus tell you how he planned to handle Finnerty's admission without escort yesterday?"
"I planned to keep my big mouth shut about it," said Paul.
Shepherd looked up with seeming pleasure and surprise. "Well, speak of the Devil." He made no move to get out of Paul's chair. "Say," he said with hearty camaraderie, "I guess you were really hung over, eh, boy? Should have taken the whole day off. I know my way around well enough to fill in for you."
"Thanks."
"No trouble. There really isn't a heck of a lot to the job."
"I expected Katharine to watch over things for me, and call for help if she needed it."
"You know what Kroner would think of that. It doesn't take a whole lot more trouble to do things right, Paul."
"Do you mind telling me what Kroner wanted?"
"Oh, yes - he wants to see you tonight instead of Thursday. He's got to be in Washington tomorrow night, and for the rest of the week."
"Wonderful. And what's the good news from the police?"
Shepherd laughed richly. "Some foul-up. They were all excited about a pistol they found down by the river. They claimed the serial numbers were for a gun checked out to you. I told them to check again - that no man who's bright enough to be manager of the Ilium Works is dumb enough to leave a pistol around loose."

"That's a nice tribute, Shep. Mind if I use my phone?"
Shepherd pushed the phone across the desk and went back to signing: "Lawson Shepherd, in absence of P. Proteus."
"Did you tell him I had a hangover?"
"Hell no, Paul. I covered up for you all right."
"What did you say was wrong?"
"Nerves."
"Great!" Katharine was getting Kroner's office on the line for Paul.
"Doctor Proteus in Ilium would like to speak to Doctor Kroner. He's returning Doctor Kroner's call," said Katharine.
It wasn't a day for judging proportions. Paul had been able to take the disturbances of Kroner, Shepherd, and the police with something bordering on apathy. Now, however, he found himself enraged by the ceremony of official telephone etiquette - time-consuming pomp and circumstance lovingly preserved by the rank-happy champions of efficiency.
"Is Doctor Proteus on?" said Kroner's secretary. "Doctor Kroner is in."
"Just a moment," said Katharine. "Doctor Proteus, Doctor Kroner is in and will speak to you."
"All right, I'm on."
"Doctor Proteus is on the line," said Katharine. "Doctor Kroner, Doctor Proteus is on the line."

"Tell him to go ahead," said Kroner.
"Tell Doctor Proteus to go ahead," said Kroner's secretary.
"Doctor Proteus, please go ahead," said Katharine.
"This is Paul Proteus, Doctor Kroner. I'm returning your call." A little bell went "tink-tink-tink," letting him know his conversation was being recorded.
"Shepherd said you'd been having trouble with your nerves, my boy."
"Not quite right. A touch of some kind of virus."
"Lot of that floating around. Well, do you feel well enough to come over to my house tonight?"
"Love it. Is there anything I should bring - anything in particular you want to discuss?"
"Like Pittsburgh?" said Shepherd in a stage whisper.
"No, no, purely social, Paul - just good talk is all. We haven't had a good, friendly talk for a long while. Mom and I would just like to see you socialwise."
Paul thought back. He hadn't been invited to Kroner's socialwise for a year, since he'd been sized up for his last raise. "Sounds like fun. What time?"
"Eight, eight-thirty."
"And Anita's invited too?" It was a mistake. It slipped out without his thinking about it.
"Of course! You never go anywhere socially without her, do you?" "Oh, no, sir."

"I should hope not." He laughed perfunctorily. "Well, goodbye."
"What did he say?" said Shepherd.
"He said you had no damn business signing those reports for me. He said Katharine Finch was to take off your name with ink-eradicator at once."
"Say, now just hold on," said Shepherd, standing.
Paul saw that all of the desk drawers were ajar. In the bottom drawer the neck of the empty whisky bottle was in plain view. He slammed each of the drawers shut in quick succession. When he came to the bottom one, he took out the bottle and held it out to Shepherd. "Here - want this? Might be valuable sometime. It's got my fingerprints all over it."
"Are you going to get me canned - is that it?" said Shepherd eagerly. "You want to make an issue of it in front of Kroner? Let's go. I'm ready any time. Let's see if you can make it stick."
"Get down where you belong. Go on. Clear out of this office, and don't come back unless I tell you to come back. Katharine!"
"Yes?"
"If Doctor Shepherd comes in this office again without permission, you're to shoot him."
Shepherd slammed the door, railed against Paul to Katharine, and left. "Doctor Proteus, the police are on the phone," said Katharine.
Paul stalked out of the office and went home.
It was the maid's day off, and Paul found Anita in the kitchen, the picture, minus children, of domesticity.

The kitchen was, in a manner of speaking, what Anita had given of herself to the world. In planning it, she had experienced all the anguish and hellfire of creativity - tortured by doubts, cursing her limitations, at once hungry for and fearful of the opinions of others. Now it was done and admired, and the verdict of the community was: Anita was artistic.
It was a large, airy room, larger than most living rooms. Rough-hewn rafters, taken from an antique barn, were held against the ceiling by concealed bolts fixed in the steel framing of the house. The walls were wainscoted in pine, aged by sandblasting, and given a soft yellow patina of linseed oil.
A huge fireplace and Dutch oven of fieldstone filled one wall. Over them hung a long muzzle-loading rifle, powder horn, and bullet pouch. On the mantel were candle molds, a coffee mill, an iron and trivet, and a rusty kettle. An iron cauldron, big enough to boil a missionary in, swung at the end of a long arm in the fireplace, and below it, like so many black offspring, were a cluster of small pots. A wooden butter churn held the door open, and clusters of Indian corn hung from the molding at aesthetic intervals. A colonial scythe stood in one corner, and two Boston rockers on a hooked rug faced the cold fireplace, where the unwatched pot never boiled.
Paul narrowed his eyes, excluding everything from his field of vision but the colonial tableau, and imagined that he and Anita had pushed this far into the upstate wilderness, with the nearest neighbor twenty-eight miles away. She was making soap, candles, and thick wool clothes for a hard winter ahead, and he, if they weren't to starve, had to mold bullets and go shoot a bear. Concentrating hard on the illusion, Paul was able to muster a feeling of positive gratitude for Anita's presence, to thank God for a woman at his side to help with the petrifying amount of work involved in merely surviving. As, in his imagination, he brought home a bear to Anita, and she cleaned it and salted it away, he felt a tremendous lift - the two of them winning by sinew and guts a mountain of strong, red meat from an inhospitable world. And he would mold more bullets, and she would make more candles and soap from the bear fat, until late at night, when Paul and Anita would tumble down together on a bundle of straw in the corner, dog-tired and sweaty,

make love, and sleep hard until the brittle-cold dawn. . . . "Urdle-urdle-urdle," went the automatic washing machine. "Urdle-urdle-ur
dull!"
Reluctantly, Paul let his field of vision widen to include the other side of the room, where Anita sat on a ladder-back chair before the cherry breakfront that concealed the laundry console. The console had been rolled from the breakfront, whose facade of drawers and doors was one large piece, making the breakfront sort of a small garage for the laundry equipment. The doors of a corner cabinet were open, revealing a television screen, which Anita watched intently. A doctor was telling an old lady that her grandson would probably be paralyzed from the waist down for the rest of his life.
"Urdle-urdle-urdle," went the console. Anita paid no attention. "Znick. Bazz- wap!" Chimes sounded. Still Anita ignored it. "Azzzzzzzzzzzzzz. Froomp!" The top of the console popped open, and a basket of dry laundry burst from it like a great chrysanthemum, white, fragrant, and immaculate.
"Hello," said Paul.
Anita motioned for him to be silent, and wait until the program was over, which meant the commercial too. "All right," she said at last and turned down the volume. "Your blue suit is laid out on the bed."
"Oh? What for?"
"What do you mean, what for? For going over to Kroner's." "How did you know that?"
"Lawson Shepherd called to tell me."
"Deuced nice of him."

"Nice of someone to tell me what's going on, since you won't."
"What else'd he say?"
"He supposed you and Finnerty must have had a wonderful time, judging from how terrible you looked this afternoon."
"He knows as much about it as I do."
Anita lit a cigarette, shook out the match with a flourish, and squinted through the smoke she let out through her nose. "Were there girls, Paul?"
"In a manner of speaking. Martha and Barbara. Don't ask me who had who." "Had?"
"Sat with."
She hunched in the chair, looked out the window soberly, and kept her cigarette hot with quick, shallow puffs, and her eyes watered in the dramatic gusts from her nose. "You don't have to tell me about it, if you don't want to."
"I won't, because I can't remember." He started to laugh. "One was called Barbara, and the other was called Martha, and beyond that, as the saying goes, everything went black."
"Then you don't know what happened? I mean, anything could have happened?"
His smile withered. "I mean everything really went black, and nothing could have happened. I was clay curled up in a booth."
"And you remember nothing?"
"I remember a man named Alfy, who makes his living as a television shark, a man named Luke Lubbock, who can be whatever his clothes are, a minister who

gets a kick out of seeing the world go to hell, and -"
"And Barbara and Martha."
"And Barbara and Martha. And parades - my God, parades."
"Feel better?"
"No. But you should, because I think Finnerty's found a new home and a new friend."
"Thank God for that. I want you to make it clear to Kroner tonight that he forced himself on our hospitality, that we were as upset by him as anyone was."
"That isn't quite true."
"Well then, keep it to yourself, if you like him so much."
She lifted the lid of the schoolmaster's desk, where she made out the daily menus and compared her stubs with the bank statements, and took from it three sheets of paper. "I know you think I'm silly, but it's worth a little trouble to do things right, Paul."
The papers contained some sort of an outline, with major divisions set off by Roman numerals, and with sub-sub-sub-sub-sub-divisions as small as (a). At random, and with his headache taking on new vitality, he chose item III., A., I., a.: "Don't smoke. Kroner is trying to break the habit."
"Maybe it would help to read it aloud," said Anita.
"Maybe it'd be better if I read it alone, where there aren't any distractions." "It took most of the afternoon."
"I expect it did. It's the most thorough job you've done yet. Thanks, darling, I

appreciate it."
"I love you, Paul."
"I love you, Anita."
"Darling - about Martha and Barbara -"
"I promise you, I didn't touch them."
"I was going to ask, did anybody see you with them?"
"I guess they did, but nobody of any importance. Not Shepherd, certainly."
"If it ever got back to Kroner, I don't know what I'd do. He might laugh off the drinking, but the women - "
"I went to bed with Barbara," said Paul suddenly.
"I thought you did. That's your affair." She was tiring of the conversation, apparently, and she looked restively at the television screen.
"And Shepherd saw me coming downstairs with her."
"Paul!"
"Joke."
She put her hand over her heart. "Oh - thank the Lord."
" 'Summer Loves,' " said Paul, looking at the television screen judiciously. "What's that?"
"The band - they're playing 'summer Loves.' " He whistled a few bars.

"How can you tell, with the volume off?"
"Go ahead, turn it up."
Apathetically, she turned the knob, and "Summer Loves," as sweet and indigestible as honey cake, oozed into the air.
Humming along with the orchestra, Paul went up the steps to his bedroom, reading the outline as he went:
"IV., A., I. If Kroner asks you why you want Pittsburgh, say it is because you can be of greater service . . . a. Soft-pedal bigger house and raise and prestige."
Fuzzily, Paul was beginning to see that he had made an ass of himself in the eyes of those on both sides of the river. He remembered his cry of the night before: "We must meet in the middle of the bridge!" He decided that he would be about the only one interested in the expedition, the only one who didn't feel strongly about which bank he was on.
If his attempt to become the new Messiah had been successful, if the inhabitants of the north and south banks had met in the middle of the bridge with Paul between them, he wouldn't have had the slightest idea of what to do next. He knew with all his heart that the human situation was a frightful botch, but it was such a logical, intelligently arrived-at botch that he couldn't see how history could possibly have led anywhere else.
Paul did a complicated sum in his mind - his savings account plus his securities plus his house plus his cars - and wondered if he didn't have enough to enable him simply to quit, to stop being the instrument of any set of beliefs or any whim of history that might raise hell with somebody's life. To live in a house by the side of a road. . . .
CHAPTER ELEVEN

The Shah of Bratpuhr, looking as tiny and elegant as a snuffbox in one end of the vast cavern, handed the Sumklish bottle back to Khashdrahr Miasma. He sneezed, having left the heat of summer above a moment before, and the sound chattered along the walls to die whispering in bat roosts deep in Carlsbad Caverns.
Doctor Ewing J. Halyard was making his thirty-seventh pilgrimage to the subterranean jungle of steel, wire, and glass that filled the chamber in which they stood, and thirty larger ones beyond. This wonder was a regular stop on the tours Halyard conducted for a bizarre variety of foreign potentates, whose common denominator was that their people represented untapped markets for America's stupendous industrial output.
A rubber-wheeled electric car came to a stop by the elevator, where the Shah's party stood, and an Army major, armed with a pistol, dismounted and examined their credentials slowly, thoroughly.
"Couldn't we speed this up a little, Major?" said Halyard. "We don't want to miss the ceremony."
"Perhaps," said the major. "But, as officer of the day, I'm responsible for nine billion dollars worth of government property, and if something should happen to it somebody might be rather annoyed with me. The ceremony has been delayed, anyway, so you won't miss anything. The President hasn't showed up yet."
The major was satisfied at last, and the party boarded the open vehicle.
"Siki?" said the Shah.
"This is EPICAC XIV," said Halyard. "It's an electronic computing machine - a

brain, if you like. This chamber alone, the smallest of the thirty-one used, contains enough wire to reach from here to the moon four times. There are more vacuum tubes in the entire instrument than there were vacuum tubes in the State of New York before World War II." He had recited these figures so often that he had no need for the descriptive pamphlet that was passed out to visitors.
Khashdrahr told the Shah.
The Shah thought it over, snickered shyly, and Khashdrahr joined him in the quiet, Oriental merriment.
"Shah said," said Khashdrahr, "people in his land sleep with smart women and make good brains cheap. Save enough wire to go to moon a thousand times."
Halyard chuckled appreciatively, as he was paid to do, wiped aside the tears engendered by his ulcer, and explained that cheap and easy brains were what was wrong with the world in the bad old days, and that EPICAC XIV could consider simultaneously hundreds or even thousands of sides of a question utterly fairly, that EPICAC XIV was wholly free of reason - muddying emotions, that EPICAC XIV never forgot anything - that, in short, EPICAC XIV was dead right about everything. And Halyard added in his mind that the procedure described by the Shah had been tried about a trillion times, and had yet to produce a brain that could be relied upon to do the right thing once out of a hundred opportunities.
They were passing the oldest section of the computer now, what had been the whole of EPICAC I, but what was now little more than an appendix or tonsil of EPICAC XIV. Yet, EPICAC I had been intelligent enough, dispassionate enough, retentive enough to convince men that he, rather than they, had better do the planning for the war that was approaching with stupifying certainty. The ancient phrase used by generals testifying before appropriation committees, "all things considered," was given some validity by the ruminations of EPICAC I, more validity by EPICAC II, and so on, through the lengthening series. EPICAC could consider the merits of high-explosive bombs as opposed to atomic weapons for tactical support, and keep in mind at the same time the availability of explosives as

opposed to fissionable materials, the spacing of enemy foxholes, the labor situation in the respective processing industries, the probable mortality of planes in the face of enemy antiaircraft technology, and on and on, if it seemed at all important, to the number of cigarettes and Cocoanut Mound Bars and Silver Stars required to support a high-morale air force. Given the facts by human beings, the war-born EPICAC series had offered the highly informed guidance that the reasonable, truth-loving, brilliant, and highly trained core of American genius could have delivered had they had inspired leadership, boundless resources, and two thousand years.
Through the war, and through the postwar years to the present, EPICAC's nervous system had been extended outward through Carlsbad Caverns - intelligence bought by the foot and pound and kilowatt. With each addition, a new, unique individual had been born, and now Halyard, the Shah, and Khashdrahr were arriving at the bunting-covered platform, where the President of the United States of America, Jonathan Lynn, would dedicate to a happier, more efficient tomorrow, EPICAC XIV.
The trio sat down on folding chairs and waited quietly with the rest of the distinguished company. Whenever there was a break in the group's whispering, EPICAC's hummings and clickings could be heard - the sounds attendant to the flow of electrons, now augmenting one another, now blocking, shuttling through a maze of electromagnetic crises to a condition that was translatable from electrical qualities and quantities to a high grade of truth.
EPICAC XIV, though undedicated, was already at work, deciding how many refrigerators, how many lamps, how many turbine-generators, how many hub caps, how many dinner plates, how many door knobs, how many rubber heels, how many television sets, how many pinochle decks - how many everything America and her customers could have and how much they would cost. And it was EPICAC XIV who would decide for the coming years how many engineers and managers and research men and civil servants, and of what skills, would be needed in order to deliver the goods; and what I.Q. and aptitude levels would separate the useful men from the useless ones, and how many Reconstruction and Reclamation

Corps men and how many soldiers could be supported at what pay level and where, and . . .
"Ladies and Gentlemen," said the television announcer, "the President of the United States."
The electric car pulled up to the platform, and President Jonathan Lynn, born Alfred Planck, stood and showed his white teeth and frank gray eyes, squared his broad shoulders, and ran his strong, tanned hands through his curly hair. The television cameras dollied and panned about him like curious, friendly dinosaurs, sniffing and peering. Lynn was boyish, tall, beautiful, and disarming, and, Halyard thought bitterly, he had gone directly from a three-hour television program to the White House.
"Is this man the spiritual leader of the American people?" asked Khashdrahr.
Halyard explained the separation of Church and State, and met, as he had expected to meet, with the Shah's usual disbelief and intimations that he, Halyard, hadn't understood the question at all.
The President, with an endearing, adolescent combination of brashness and shyness, and with the barest trace of a Western drawl, was now reading aloud a speech someone had written about EPICAC XIV. He made it clear that he wasn't any scientist, but just plain folks, standing here, humble before this great new wonder of the world, and that he was here because American plain folks had chosen him to represent them at occasions like this, and that, looking at this modern miracle, he was overcome with a feeling of deep reverence and humility and gratitude . . .
Halyard yawned, and was annoyed to think that Lynn, who had just read "order out of chaos" as "order out of koze," made three times as much money as he did. Lynn, or, as Halyard preferred to think of him, Planck, hadn't even finished high school, and Halyard had known smarter Irish setters. Yet, here the son-of-a-bitch was, elected to more than a hundred thousand bucks a year!

"You mean to say that this man governs without respect to the people's spiritual destinies?" whispered Khashdrahr.
"He has no religious duties, except very general ones, token ones," said Halyard, and then he started wondering just what the hell Lynn did do. EPICAC XIV and the National Industrial, Commercial, Communications, Foodstuffs, and Resources Board did all the planning, did all the heavy thinking. And the personnel machines saw to it that all governmental jobs of any consequence were filled by topnotch civil servants. The more Halyard thought about Lynn's fat pay check, the madder he got, because all the gorgeous dummy had to do was read whatever was handed to him on state occasions: to be suitably awed and reverent, as he said, for all the ordinary, stupid people who'd elected him to office, to run wisdom from somewhere else through that resonant voicebox and between those even, pearly choppers.
And Halyard suddenly realized that, just as religion and government had been split into disparate entities centuries before, now, thanks to the machines, politics and government lived side by side, but touched almost nowhere. He stared at President Jonathan Lynn and imagined with horror what the country must have been like when, as today, any damn fool little American boy might grow up to be President, but when the President had had to actually run the country!
President Lynn was explaining what EPICAC XIV would do for the millions of plain folks, and Khashdrahr was translating for the Shah. Lynn declared that EPICAC XIV was, in effect, the greatest individual in history, that the wisest man that had ever lived was to EPICAC XIV as a worm was to that wisest man.
For the first time the Shah of Bratpuhr seemed really impressed, even startled. He hadn't thought much of EPICAC XIV's physical size, but the comparison of the worm and the wise man struck home. He looked about himself apprehensively, as though the tubes and meters on all sides were watching every move.
The speech was over, and the applause was dying, and Doctor Halyard brought the Shah to meet the President, and the television cameras nuzzled about them.

"The President is now shaking hands with the Shah of Bratpuhr," said the announcer. "Perhaps the Shah will give us the fresh impressions of a visitor from another part of the world, from another way of life."
"Allasan Khabou pillan?" said the Shah uncertainly.
"He wonders if he might ask a question," said Khashdrahr.
"Sure, you bet," said the President engagingly. "If I don't know the answers, I can get them for you."
Unexpectedly, the Shah turned his back to the President and walked alone, slowly, to a deserted part of the platform.
"Wha'd I do wrong?" said Lynn.
"Ssssh!" said Khashdrahr fiercely, and he placed himself, like a guard, between the puzzled crowd and the Shah.
The Shah dropped to his knees on the platform and raised his hands over his head. The small, brown man suddenly seemed to fill the entire cavern with his mysterious, radiant dignity, alone there on the platform, communing with a presence no one else could sense.
"We seem to be witnessing some sort of religious rite," said the announcer. "Can't you keep your big mouth shut for five seconds?" said Halyard. "Quiet!" said Khashdrahr.
The Shah turned to a glowing bank of EPICAC's tubes and cried in a piping singsong voice:

Allakahi baku billa, Moumi a fella nam;
Serani assu tilla, Touri serin a sam."
"The crazy bastard's talking to the machine," whispered Lynn.
"Ssssh!" said Halyard, strangely moved by the scene.
"Siki?" cried the Shah. He cocked his head, listening. "Siki?" The word echoed and died - lonely, lost.
"Mmmmmm," said EPICAC softly. "Dit, dit. Mmmmm. Dit."
The Shah sighed and stood, and shook his head sadly, terribly let down. "Nibo,"
he murmured. "Nibo."
"What's he say?" said the President.
"'Nibo' - 'nothing.' He asked the machine a question, and the machine didn't answer," said Halyard. "Nibo."
"Nuttiest thing I ever heard of," said the President. "You have to punch out the questions on that thingamajig, and the answers come out on tape from the whatchamacallits. You can't just talk to it." A doubt crossed his fine face. "I mean, you can't, can you?"
"No sir," said the chief engineer of the project. "As you say, not without the thingamajigs and whatchamacallits."
"What'd he say?" said Lynn, catching Khashdrahr's sleeve.

"An ancient riddle," said Khashdrahr, and it was plain that he didn't want to go on, that something sacred was involved. But he was also a polite man, and the inquiring eyes of the crowd demanded more of an explanation. "Our people believe," he said shyly, "that a great, all-wise god will come among us one day, and we shall know him, for he shall be able to answer the riddle, which EPICAC could not answer. When he comes," said Khashdrahr simply, "there will be no more suffering on earth."
"All-wise god, eh?" said Lynn. He licked his lips and patted down his unruly forelock. "How's the riddle go?"
Khashdrahr recited:
"Silver bells shall light my way,
And nine times nine maidens fill my day, And mountain lakes will sink from sight, And tigers' teeth will fill the night."
President Lynn squinted at the cavern roof thoughtfully. "Mmm. Silver bells, eh?" He shook his head. "That's a stinker, you know? A real stinker. I give up."
"I'm not surprised," said Khashdrahr. "I'm not surprised. I expect you do."
Halyard helped the Shah, who seemed to have been aged and exhausted by the emotional ordeal, into the electric car.
As they rode to the foot of the elevator, the Shah came back to life somewhat and curled his lip at the array of electronics about them. "Baku!" he said.

"That's a new one on me," said Halyard to Khashdrahr, feeling warmly toward the little interpreter, who had squared away Jonathan Lynn so beautifully. "What's Baku?"
"Little mud and straw figures made by the Surrasi, a small infidel tribe in the Shah's land."
"This looks like mud and straw to him?"
"He was using it in the broader sense, I think, of false god." "Urn," said Halyard. "Well, how are the Surrasi doing?"
"They all died of cholera last spring." He added after a moment, "Of course." He shrugged, as though to ask what else people like that could possibly expect. "Baku."
CHAPTER TWELVE
The Kroner Home, just outside Albany, was a Victorian mansion, perfectly restored and maintained down to the filigree along the eaves, and the iron spikes along the roof peak. The archprophet of efficiency, Kroner, preferred it to the gracile, wipe-clean-with-a-damp-cloth steel and glass machines almost all of the engineers and managers lived in. Though Kroner had never accounted for his having bought the place - beyond saying that he liked lots of room - it was so in keeping with him that no one gave the anachronism more than passing thought.

A portrait painter had sensed the rightness of the setting, with no clues other than Kroner's face. The painter had been commissioned to do portraits of all the district managers. He did them from photographs, since the managers were too busy - or prudently claimed to be - to sit. Intuitively, the painter had depicted Kroner in a red plush chair, with a massive wedding ring prominently displayed, and with a background of heavy velvet drapes.
The mansion was one more affirmation of Kroner's belief that nothing of value changed; that what was once true is always true; that truths were few and simple; and that a man needed no knowledge beyond these truths to deal wisely and justly with any problem whatsoever.
"Come in," rumbled Kroner gently, answering the door himself. He seemed to fill the whole house with his slow strength and rock-bound calm. He was as informal as he ever became, having replaced his double-breasted suit coat with a single-breasted one of a slightly lighter shade and with suede patches at the elbows. The coat, he explained to visitors, was something his wife had given him years ago, something which he'd only recently mustered nerve enough to wear.
"I love your house more every time I see it," said Anita.
"You must tell Janice that." Janice was Mrs. Kroner, who smiled sweetly from the living room. She was a fat repository of truisms, adages, and homilies, and was usually addressed by the young engineers and managers as "Mom."
Mom, Paul recalled, had never liked that Finnerty boy, who would never call her Mom nor confide in her. Once, after she'd prodded him to unburden himself and feel better, he'd rather testily told her that he'd already fled one mother. Paul she liked, because Paul, as a youngster, had confided in her now and then. He would never do it again, but his demeanor before her conveyed that his failure to confide recently wasn't due to revulsion, but to a lack of problems.
"Hello, Mom," said Paul. "Hello, Mom," said Anita.

"You children take a load off your feet," said Mom. "Now just tell me all about yourselves."
"Well, we've redone the kitchen," said Anita.
Mom was thrilled, eager for details.
Kroner hung his huge head, as though listening intently to the small talk, or, more likely, Paul thought, counting away the seconds before it would be polite to separate the men and women - a custom of the house.
As Anita paused for breath, Kroner stood, beamed, and suggested that Paul come into his study to see the guns. It was the same gambit every time - the men were to see the guns. Years ago, Anita had made the mistake of saying she was interested in guns, too. Kroner had politely told her that his weren't the kind women liked.
Mom's response was always the same, too: "Oh guns - I hate them. I can't see why men want to go around shooting sweet little animals."
The fact was, Kroner never fired his guns. His pleasure seemed to be in owning and handling them. He also used them for props, to give an air of informality to his man-to-man talks. He announced raises and promotions, demotions and firings, and praised or warned, always in seemingly casual asides made while swabbing a bore.
Paul followed him into the dark-paneled study, and waited for him to choose his weapon from the gunrack that filled one wall. Kroner ran his index finger along the collection, like a stick along a picket fence. It had been a matter of speculation among Kroner's underlings as to whether there was any significance in the guns he chose for a particular discussion. For a while the rumor was current that shotguns were bad news, rifles were good news. But it hadn't withstood the test of time. Kroner finally chose a ten-gauge shotgun, broke open the breach, and squinted through the bore at a streetight outside.

"Wouldn't dare shoot modern ammunition in this one," said Kroner. "Twist barrel - thing'd go all to pieces. But look at that inlay work, Paul."
"Beautiful. Priceless."
"Some man spent maybe two years on it. Time didn't mean anything in those days. The industrial dark ages, Paul."
"Yessir."
He selected a cleaning rod and lined up on his desk top a can of oil, ajar of grease, and several cloth patches. "Got to keep after a bore, or it'll pit on you just like that." He snapped his fingers. He oiled a patch, twisted it about the tip of the cleaning rod. "Especially in this climate."
"Yessir." Paul started to light a cigarette, and then remembered Anita's warning in the outline.
Kroner drove the cleaning rod downward. "Where's Ed Finnerty, by the way?" "Don't know, sir."
"Police are looking for him."
"Really?"
Kroner slid the patch back and forth and didn't look at Paul. "Uh-huh. Now that he's out of a job, he's got to register with the police, and he hasn't."
"I left him downtown in Homestead last night."
"I know that. I thought maybe you knew where he went."
Kroner had a habit of saying he already knew what he'd just been told. Paul was sure the old man didn't really know anything about the night before. "I haven't any

idea." He didn't want to make trouble for anyone. Let the police find out that Finnerty was with Lasher, if they could.
"Umm hmmm. See that pit right there?" He held the muzzle of the gun a few inches from Paul's face and pointed out a tiny flaw. "That's what happens if you let a bore go for even a month. They'll run right away with you."
"Yessir."
"He isn't to be trusted any more, Paul. He isn't right in his head, and it wouldn't do to take chances with him, would it?"
"Nossir."
Kroner dabbed at the pit with the corner of a patch. "I supposed you saw it that way. That's why it's a little difficult for me to understand why you let him wander around the plant unescorted."
Paul reddened. No words came.
"Or why you'd let him have your gun. He isn't authorized for firearms any more, you know. Yet they tell me they found your pistol covered with his fingerprints."
Before Paul could order his thoughts, Kroner clapped him on his knee and laughed like Santa Claus. "I'm so sure you've got a good explanation, I don't even want to hear it. Got a lot of faith in you, my boy. Don't want to see you get into any trouble. Now that your father's gone, I feel it's sort of up to me to watch out for you."
"That's nice of you, sir."
Kroner turned his back to Paul, assumed a ready stance with the shotgun, and picked off an imaginary bird flushed from behind the desk. "Kaplowie!" He ejected an imaginary shell. "These are dangerous times - more dangerous than you'd suspect from the surface. Kaplowie! But it's also the Golden Age, isn't it,

Paul?"
Paul nodded.
Kroner turned to look at him. "I said, isn't this the Golden Age?"
"Yessir. I nodded."
"Pull!" said Kroner, apparently imagining clay pigeons now. "Kaboom! There have always been doubters, criers of doom, stoppers of progress."
"Yessir. About Finnerty and the pistol, I -"
"Behind us now, forgotten," said Kroner impatiently. "The slate is clean. As I was about to say, look where we are now, because men went right ahead and took forward steps with stout hearts, in spite of the people telling them not to."
"Yessir."
"Kaplowie! Some men try to make light of what we're doing, what men like your father did, by saying it's just gadgeteering, blind tinkering. It's more than that, Paul."
Paul leaned forward, eager to hear what this extra quality might be. He'd felt for some time that everyone else in the system must be seeing something he was missing. Perhaps this was it, perhaps the beginning of an overwhelming fervor like his father's.
"It's a sight more than gadgeteering, I'll tell you, Paul."
"Yessir?"
"It's strength and faith and determination. Our job is to open new doors at the head of the procession of civilization. That's what the engineer, the manager does. There is no higher calling."

Dejectedly, Paul let his spine sag back in the chair.
Kroner put a fresh patch on the cleaning rod and began swabbing the bore again. "Paul - Pittsburgh is still open. The field has been narrowed down to two men."
It was somewhat startling that he said it just that way, the way Anita had said he would. He wondered what it was she thought he should say in response. He'd never given her a chance to say, and hadn't read the outline. "It's a wonderful chance to be of real service," he said. He supposed that was pretty close to what she had in mind.
Paul felt lightheaded, having borrowed Anita's thoughts for want of enthusiasm of his own. He was being offered the Pittsburgh job, lots more money, and, since he would have risen so high with the greater portion of his life still ahead, the assurance that he would almost certainly go clear to the top. The moment of his arrival at this point of immense good fortune was curiously bland. He had known it was coming for a long time. Kroner had wanted it for him and had come close to promising it to him often - always in the name of his father. When advances had come, as now, there had been a vestigal sort of ritual of surprise and congratulation, as though Paul, like his ancestors, had arrived by cunning, tenacity, and God's will or the Devil's laxness.
"It's a tough decision, Paul, between you and Fred Garth." Garth was a much older man, nearly Kroner's age, manager of the Buffalo Works. "Frankly, Garth hasn't got your technical imagination, Paul. As a manager he's excellent, but if it wasn't for prodding, the Buffalo Works would be just as it was when he took over five years ago. But he's steady and reliable, Paul, and there's never been any question that he was one of us, that he put progress and the system ahead of his own interests."
"Garth's a fine man," said Paul. Garth was, too: foursquare, desperate to please, and he seemed to have an anthropomorphic image of the corporate personality. Garth stood in relation to that image as a lover, and Paul wondered if this

prevalent type of relationship had ever been given the consideration it deserved by sexologists. On second thought, he supposed that it had - the general phenomenon of a lover's devotion to the unseen - in studies of nuns' symbolic marriages to Christ. At any rate, Paul had seen Garth at various stages of his love affair, unable to eat for anxiety, on a manic crest, moved to maudlin near-crying at recollections of the affair's tender beginnings. In short, Garth suffered all the emotional hazards of a perennial game of she-loves-me, she-loves-me-not. To carry out directions from above - an irritating business for Paul - was, for Garth, a favor to please a lady. "I'd like to see him get the job."
"I'd like to see you get the job, Paul." Kroner's expression indicated that the mention of Garth had been so much window dressing. "You've got imagination and spirit and ability -"
"Thank you, sir."
"Let me finish. Imagination, spirit, and ability, and, for all I know, I may be completely wrong in calling your loyalty into question."
"Loyalty?"
Kroner laid the shotgun aside and pulled up a chair to face Paul's. He laid his big hands on Paul's knees and lowered his thick brows. The situation had the quality of a séance, with Kroner as the medium. Again, as he had felt when Kroner took his hand at the Country Club, Paul felt his strength and will dwarfed by the old man. "Paul, I want you to tell me what's on your mind."
The hands on his knees tightened. Paul struggled resentfully against the urge to pour his heart out to this merciful, wise, gentle father. But his sullenness decayed. Paul began to talk.
His formless misgivings and disquiet of a week before, he realized, had shape now. The raw material of his discontent was now cast in another man's molds. He was saying what Lasher had said the night before, talking about the spiritual disaster across the river, about the threat of revolution, about the hierarchy that

was a nightmare to most. The way he phrased it, it wasn't a condemnation, it was a plea for refutation.
Kroner, his hands still on Paul's knees, hung his head lower and lower.
Paul came to the end, and Kroner stood and turned his back to stare out of the window. The spell was still in force, and Paul looked expectantly at the broad back, waiting for wisdom.
Kroner turned suddenly. "So you're against us."
"I didn't mean to say that, certainly. They're questions that deserve some sort of answer."
"Keep to your own side of the river, Paul! Your job is management and engineering. I don't know what the answers are to Lasher's questions. I do know that it's far easier to ask questions than to answer them. I know that there have always been questions, and men like Lasher ready to make trouble by asking them."
"You know about Lasher?" Paul hadn't mentioned his name.
"Yes, I've known about him for quite some time. And, as of this noon, I know what you and Lasher and Finnerty were up to last night." He looked sad. "As district industrial security officer, there isn't much I don't know, Paul. And sometimes, like now, I wish I didn't know so much."
"And Pittsburgh?"
"I still think you're the man for the job. I'm going to pretend that you didn't do last night what you did, didn't say just now what you said. I don't believe it came from your heart."
Paul was amazed. By some freakish circumstance he'd apparently clinched the job - after having arrived with the vague intention of disqualifying himself.

"This is the main stretch, Paul. Now it's all up to you."
"I could go on the wagon, I suppose."
"It's a little more complicated than that, I'm afraid. In a very short while you managed to pile up a fairly impressive police dossier: the pistol, letting Finnerty into the plant, last night's indiscretions - and, well, I've got to be able to explain it all away to the satisfaction of Headquarters. You could go to prison, you know."
Paul laughed nervously.
"I want to be able to say, Paul, that you were doing special security work for me, and I'd like to prove it."
"I see." Paul didn't.
"You'll agree that both Lasher and Finnerty are dangerous men, potential saboteurs who should be put where they can't do any harm." He took the shotgun down from the rack again and distorted his face as he cleaned around the ejector with a toothpick. "So," he said after a few moments of silence, "I'll want you to testify that they tried to get you into a plot to sabotage the Ilium Works."
The door flew open, and Baer came in, grinning. "Congratulations, my boy. Congratulations. Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful."
"Congratulations?" said Paul. "Pittsburgh, my boy, Pittsburgh!"
"It hasn't quite been settled," said Kroner. "But you said yesterday -"
"A little something's come up since then." Kroner winked at Paul. "Nothing very serious, though, eh, Paul? A little hurdle."

"Um, oh, I see, uh-huh; a hurdle, a hurdle. I see. Um."
Paul was shaken and confused by what had just happened to him, and he hid his lack of composure behind a vacuous smile. He wondered if Baer had come in on cue.
"Paul here had some questions," said Kroner.
"Questions? Questions, my boy?"
"He wanted to know if we weren't doing something bad in the name of progress."
Baer sat on the desk and began taking kinks out of the telephone cord. He was thinking very hard, and from the man's expression Paul could only conclude that the question had never come to Baer's attention before. Now that it had, he was giving it his earnest consideration. "Is progress bad? Uh-huh - good question." He loked up from the cord. "I don't know, don't know. Maybe progress is bad, eh?"
Kroner looked at him with surprise. "Look, you know darn good and well history's answered the question a thousand times."
"It has? Has it? You know; I wouldn't. Answered it a thousand times, has it? That's good, good. All I know is, you've got to act like it has, or you might as well throw in the towel. Don't know, my boy. Guess I should, but I don't. Just do my job. Maybe that's wrong."
It was Kroner's turn to be dismayed. "Well, what say to a refresher?" he said briskly.
"I say yes to a refresher," said Paul gratefully.
Kroner chuckled. "There, there; it wasn't so rough, now was it?"

"Nope."
"That's my boy. Chin up."
As Baer, Paul, and Kroner filed into the living room, Mom was telling Anita sadly that it took all kinds of people to make a world.
"I just want to make sure everybody understands he invited himself," said Anita. "Mom, there wasn't a thing we could do about it."
Kroner dusted his hands. "Well, what say to a pick-me-up?"
"Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful," said Baer.
"Did you men have a good time with those awful guns?" said Mom, wrinkling her nose.
"Swell, Mom," said Paul.
Anita caught Paul's eyes, and raised her brows questioningly.
Paul nodded slightly.
She smiled and lay back in her chair, exhausted, satisfied.
Mom handed out small glasses of port, while Kroner tinkered with the phonograph. "Where is it?" he said.
"Now, now - right where it always is, on the turntable," said Mom.
"Oh yes - here it is. I thought maybe somebody else had been playing something since I used it."
"No. Nobody's been near the phonograph since last night."
Kroner held the tone arm over the spinning record. "This is for you, Paul. When

I said pick-me-up I really had this in mind more than the wine. This is meat for the spirit. This can pull me out of a slump like nothing I can think of."
"I gave it to him last month, and I can't think of anything that's ever pleased him as much," said Mom.
Kroner lowered the needle into the groove and hurried to a chair and covered his eyes before the music began.
The volume was turned way up, and suddenly the loudspeaker howled:
"Ooooooooooooh, give me some men, who are stout-hearted men, who will fight for the right they adore . . ."
Paul looked around the room. Kroner was clumping his feet up and down and jerking his his head from side to side. Mom was jerking her head, too, and so were Baer and Anita - Anita more violently than any of them.
Paul sighed, and began to jerk his head, too.
"Shoulder to shoulder, and bolder and bolder, they grow as they go to the fore! Ooooooooooooh . . ."
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
Lying abed after the stout-hearted men's evening at the Kroner's, Doctor Paul

Proteus, son of a successful man, himself rich with prospects of being richer, counted his material blessings. He found that he was in excellent shape to afford integrity. He was worth, without having to work another day in his life, almost three-quarters of a million dollars.
For once, his dissatisfaction with his life was specific. He was reacting to an outrage that would be regarded as such by almost any man in any period in history. He had been told to turn informer on his friend, Ed Finnerty. This was about as basic as an attack on integrity could be, and Paul received it with the same sort of relief that was felt when the first shots of the last war were fired - after decades of tension.
Now he could damn well lose his temper and quit.
Anita slept - utterly satisfied, not so much by Paul as by the social orgasm of, after years of the system's love play, being offered Pittsburgh.
She had delivered a monologue on the way home from Albany - a recitation that might have come from Shepherd. She'd reviewed Paul's career from the instant of their marriage onward, and Paul was surprised to learn that his path was strewn with bodies - men who had tried to best him, only to be chagrined and ruined.
She made the carnage so vivid that he was obliged for a moment to abandon his own thoughts, to see if there was the slightest truth in what she was saying. He went over the scalps she was counting one by one - men who had competed with him for this job or that - and found that they all had done well for themselves and were quite unbroken either financially or in spirit. But to Anita they were dead men, shot squarely between the eyes, and good riddance of bad rubbish.
Paul hadn't told Anita the conditions he would have to meet before he could have Pittsburgh. And he didn't intimate that he was going to do anything but take the job proudly, joyfully.
Now, lying beside her, he congratulated himself on his calm, on his being wily for the first time in his life, really. He wasn't going to tell Anita that he was

quitting for a long time, not until she was ready. He would subtly re-educate her to a new set of values, and then quit. Otherwise the shock of being the wife of a nobody might do tragic things. The only grounds on which she met the world were those of her husband's rank. If he were to lose the rank it was frighteningly possible that she would lose touch with the world altogether, or, worse for Paul, leave him.
And Paul didn't want either of those things to happen. She was what fate had given him to love, and he did his best to love her. He knew her too well for her conceits to be offensive most of the time, to be anything but pathetic.
She was also more of a source of courage than he cared to admit.
She also had a sexual genius that gave Paul his one unqualified enthusiasm in life.
And Anita had also made possible, by her dogged attention to details, the luxury of his detached, variously amused or cynical outlook on life.
She was also all he had.
A vague panic welled up cold in his chest, driving away drowsiness when he would most have welcomed it. He began to see that he, too, would be in for a shock. He felt oddly disembodied, an insubstantial wisp, nothingness, a man who declined to be any more. Suddenly understanding that he, like Anita, was little more than his station in life, he threw his arms around his sleeping wife, and laid his head on the breast of his fellow wraith-to-be.
"Mmmmm?" said Anita. "Mmmmmmm?"
"Anita -"
"Mmm?"
"Anita, I love you." The compulsion was upon him to tell her everything, to

mingle his consciousness with hers. But as he momentarily raised his head from the drugging warmth and fragrance of her bosom, cool, fresh air from the Adirondacks bathed his face, and wisdom returned. He said nothing more to her.
"I love you, Paul," she murmured. CHAPTER FOURTEEN
Doctor Paul Proteus was a man with a secret. Most of the time it was an exhilarating secret, and he extracted momentary highs of joy from it while dealing with fellow members of the system in the course of his job. At the beginning and close of each item of business he thought, "To hell with you."
It was to hell with them, to hell with everything. This secret detachment gave him a delightful sense of all the world's being a stage. Waiting until the time when he and Anita would be in mental shape to quit and start a better life, Paul acted out his role as manager of the Ilium Works. Outwardly, as manager, he was unchanged; but inwardly he was burlesquing smaller, less free souls who would have taken the job seriously.
He had never been a reading man, but now he was developing an appetite for novels wherein the hero lived vigorously and out-of-doors, dealing directly with nature, dependent upon basic cunning and physical strength for survival - woodsmen, sailors, cattlemen. . . .
He read of these heroes with a half-smile on his lips. He knew his enjoyment of them was in a measure childish, and he doubted that a life could ever be as clean,

hearty, and satisfying as those in the books. Still and all, there was a basic truth underlying the tales, a primitive ideal to which he could aspire. He wanted to deal, not with society, but only with Earth as God had given it to man.
"Is that a good book, Doctor Proteus?" said Doctor Katharine Finch, his secretary. She'd come into his office carrying a large gray cardboard box.
"Oh - hello, Katharine." He laid the book down with a smile. "Not great literature; I'll promise you that. Pleasant relaxation is all. All about bargemen on the old Erie Ship Canal." He tapped the broad, naked chest of the hero on the book jacket. "Don't make men like that any more. Well, what's in the box? That for me?"
"It's your shirts. They just came by mail."
"Shirts?"
"For the Meadows."
"Oh, those things. Open them up. What color are they?"
"Blue. You're on the Blue Team this year." She laid the shirts on the desk.
"Oh, no!" Paul stood and held one of the deep blue T-shirts at arm's length. "Dear God in heaven - no!" Across the chest of each of the shirts, in blazing gold letters, was the word "Captain." "Katharine, they can't do this to me."
"It's an honor, isn't it?"
"Honor!" He exhaled noisily and shook his head. "For fourteen days, Katharine, I, Queen of the May and captain of the Blue Team, am going to have to lead my men in group singing, marches, greased-pole climbing, volley ball, horseshoes, softball, golf-ball driving, badminton, trapshooting, capture the flag, Indian wrestling, touch football, shuffleboard, and trying to throw the other captains into the lake. Agh!"

"Doctor Shepherd was very pleased."
"He always has been fond of me."
"No - I mean he was pleased about being a captain himself."
"Oh? Shepherd is a captain?" Paul's raised eyebrows were part of an old reflex, the wary reaction of a man who has been in the system for a good many years. Being chosen to captain one of the four teams was an honor, if a man gave a damn about such things. It was a way the higher brass had of showing favor, and, politically, Shepherd's having been chosen a captain was a striking business. Shepherd had always been a nobody at the Meadows, whose chief fame was as a pretty fair softball pitcher. Now, suddenly, he was a captain. "Which team?"
"Green. His shirts are on my desk. Green with orange lettering. Very vivid."
"Green, eh?" Well, if one cared about such things, Green was the lowest in the unofficial hierarchy of teams. It was one of those things that was understood without anyone's saying anything about it. Having looked this far into the piddling matter, Paul congratulated himself for having been named captain of the Blue, which, again, everybody seemed to feel was the team with the most tone. Not that it made any difference at all any more. Made none. Silly. To hell with it.
"They certainly give you enough shirts," said Katharine, counting. "Nine, ten, eleven, twelve."
"Nothing like enough. For two weeks you drink and sweat, drink and sweat, drink and sweat, until you feel like a sump pump. This is a day's supply at the outside."
"Uh-huh. Well, sorry, that's all there is in the box except this book." She held up the volume, which looked like a hymnal.
"Hi ho - The Meadows Songbook," said Paul wearily. He leaned back and

closed his eyes. "Pick a song, Katharine, any song, and read it aloud."
"Here's the song for the Green Team, Doctor Shepherd's team. To the tune of
the William Tell Overture."
"The whole overture?"
"That's what it says here."
"Well, go ahead and give it a try."
She cleared her throat, started to sing softly, thought better of it, and lapsed into plain reading:
"Green oh Green oh Green's the team! Mightiest e'er the world has seen! Red, Blue, White will scream,
When
They see the great Green Team!"
"That'll put hair on your chest, Katharine."
"Oh, gosh but it'll be fun! You know you'll love it when you get up there."
Paul opened his eyes to see that Katharine was reading another song, and her eyes shone with excitement and she rocked her head from side to side. "What's that you're reading now?"

"Oh, I wish I were a man! I was just reading your song."
"My song?"
"The Blue Team's song."
"Oh - my song. By all means, let's hear it." She whistled a few bars of "Indiana," and then sang, this time heartily:
"Hmmm."
"Oh you Blue Team, you tried and true team, There are no teams as good as you!
You will smash Green, also the Red Team, And the White Team you'll batter, too. They'd better scurry before your fury,
And in a hurry, without a clue;
Because the Blue Team's a tried and true team, And there's no team as good as you!"
"And you will win, too. I know you will," said Katharine.
"You going to be at the Mainland?" The Mainland was a camp for wives and children, and women employees whose development wasn't yet complete, across the water from the Meadows, the island where the men went.

"That's as close as I can get to the real thing," said Katharine wistfully.
"That's close enough, believe me. Tell me, is Bud Calhoun going to be there?"
She colored, and he was instantly sorry he'd asked. "He had an invitation, I know," she said, "but that was before -" She shrugged unhappily. "And you know what the Manual says.
"The machines can't stand him any more," said Paul heavily. "Why don't they build in a gimmick that will give a man a free drink before he gets the ax? Do you know what he's up to now?"
"I haven't talked to him or seen him, but I did call up Matheson's office to find out what was going to be done with him. They said he was going to be a project supervisor for the -" her voice caught " - for the Reeks and Wrecks." Emotion was giving her a rough going-over now, and she left Paul's office hurriedly.
"I'm sure he'll do well," Paul called after her. "I'll bet we won't know our city a year from now, with him thinking up things for the Reeks and Wrecks to do."
Her phone rang, and she relayed the information to Paul that Doctor Edward Finnerty was at the gate, wanting in.
"Bind his hands and feet, put a bag over his head, and have four men bring him up. Fixed bayonets, of course. And be sure and get a picture of it for Shepherd."
Ten minutes later, Finnerty was escorted into Paul's office by an armed guard.
"For heaven's sake - look at you!" said Paul. Finnerty's hair was cut and combed, his face was pink, shining, and shaved, and his seersucker suit, while worn and a poor fit, was crisp and sanitary-looking.
Finnerty looked at him blankly, as though he couldn't guess what the fuss was about. "I'd like to borrow your car."

"Promise to wipe off the fingerprints when you're through?"
"Oh - you're sore about that pistol business, I suppose. Sorry. I meant to throw it in the river."
"You know about it, then?"
"Sure - and about how Shepherd turned in a report on you, too, telling how you let me in the plant without an escort. Tough." Finnerty, after less than a week in Homestead, had taken on rough, swashbuckling mannerisms - glaringly synthetic. He also seemed to be getting a real kick out of being a liability as an associate for anyone respectable.
Paul was amazed, as he had been amazed at Kroner's, by how much others knew about his affairs. "How do you know so much?"
"You'd be surprised who knows what, and how they find out. Surprise the pants off you to know what goes on in this world. My eyes are just opening." He leaned forward earnestly. "And, Paul - I'm finding myself. At last I'm finding myself."
"What do you look like, Ed?"
"Those dumb bastards across the river - they're my kind of people. They're real, Paul, real!"
Paul had never doubted that they were real, and so found himself without any sort of comment or emotional response for Finnerty's important announcement. "Well, I'm glad you've found yourself after all these years," he said. Finnerty had been finding himself ever since Paul had known him. And, weeks later, he'd always deserted that self with angry cries of impostor, and discovered another. "That's swell, Ed."
"Well, anyway, how about the keys to the car?" "Is it fair to ask what for?"

"This is a milk run. I want to pick up my clothes and stuff at your house and run them over to Lasher's."
"You're living with Lasher?"
Finnerty nodded. "Surprising how well we hit it off, right from the first." His tone implied the barest trace of contempt for Paul's shallow way of life. "Keys?"
Paul threw them to him. "How do you plan to use the rest of your life, Ed?" "With the people. That's my place."
"You know the cops are after you for not registering?"
"Spice of life."
"You can be jailed, you know."
"You're afraid to live, Paul. That's what's the matter with you. You know about Thoreau and Emerson?"
"A little. About as much as you did before Lasher primed you, I'll bet."
"Anyway, Thoreau was in jail because he wouldn't pay a tax to support the Mexican War. He didn't believe in the war. And Emerson came to jail to see him. 'Henry,' he said, 'why are you here?' And Thoreau said, 'Ralph, why aren't you here?' "
"I should want to go to jail?" said Paul, trying to get some sort of message for himself out of the anecdote.
"You shouldn't let fear of jail keep you from doing what you believe in."
"Well, it doesn't." Paul reflected that the big trouble, really, was finding something to believe in.

"All right, so it doesn't." There was weary disbelief in Finnerty's voice. He was apparently getting bored with his convention-ridden former friend from the north side of the river. "Thanks for the car."
"Any time." Paul was relieved when the door closed behind the new - this week's - Finnerty.
Katharine opened the door again. "He scares me," she said.
"You needn't be scared. He wastes all his energy on games with himself. There goes your phone."
"It's Doctor Kroner," said Katharine. "Yes," she said into the telephone, "Doctor Proteus is in."
"Would you please put him on," said Kroner's secretary.
"Doctor Proteus speaking."
"Doctor Proteus is on," said Katharine.
"Just a moment. Doctor Kroner wishes to speak with him. Doctor Kroner, Doctor Proteus in Ilium is on the line."
"Hello, Paul."
"How do you do, sir."
"Paul, about this Finnerty and Lasher business -" His playfully conspiratorial tone implied that the proposed prosecution of these two was sort of a practical joke. "Just wanted to tell you that I called Washington about it, to let them in on what we're going to do, and they say we should hold off for a while. They say the whole thing ought to be well planned at the top level. It's apparently bigger stuff than I thought." His voice dropped to a whisper. "It's beginning to look like a

problem nationwise, not just Iliumwise."
Paul was pleased that there was to be a delay, but the reason for it was a surprise. "How could Finnerty get to be a problem nationwise or even Iliumwise? He's only been here a few days."
"Idle hands do the Devil's work, Paul. He's probably been getting into bad company, and it's the bad company we're really after. Anyway, the top brass wants in on whatever we do, and they want to have a meeting about it at the Meadows. Let's see - sixteen days from now."
"Fine," said Paul, and added, in his mind, the imaginary seal he affixed to all official business these days - "And to hell with you." He had no intention of turning informer on anyone. He would simply stall until he and Anita were fully prepared to say, "To hell with you, to hell with everything," aloud.
"We think the world of you over here, Paul."
"Thank you, sir."
Kroner was silent for a moment. Suddenly he shouted into the phone, almost rupturing Paul's eardrum.
"Beg your pardon, sir?" The message had been so loud as to be all pain and no sense.
Kroner chuckled, and lowered his voice a little. "I said, who's going to win, Paul?"
"Win?"
"The Meadows, the Meadows! Who's going to win?"
"Oh - the Meadows," said Paul. It was a nightmarish conversation, with Kroner vehement and happy, and with Paul devoid of the vaguest notion as to what was

being discussed.
"What team?" said Kroner, a shade peevishly.
"Oh. Oh! The Blue Team is going to win!" He filled his lungs. "Blue!" he shouted.
"You bet your life we're going to win!" Kroner shouted back. "The Blues are behind you, Cap'n!" Kroner, then, was on the Blue Team, too. He started to sing in his rumbling basso:
"Oh you Blue Team, you tried and true team, There are no teams as good as you!
You will smash Green, also the Red Team, And the White Team you'll batt -"
The song was interrupted by a cry: "White's going to win! Go, White!" It was Baer, yelling in the background. "So you think Blue's going to win, do you, do you, eh? Win? Think Blue's going to win, eh, eh? The White Team will trim you, trim you - aha, aha - trim the daylights out of the Blue Team."
There was the sound of laughter and banter and scuffling, and Kroner picked up the Blue Team's song where he'd left off:
"They'd better scurry before your fury, And in a hurry, without a clue;

Because the -"
Baer's piercing voice cut through Kroner's bass with the White Team's song, to the tune of "Tramp, Tramp, Tramp":
"White, White, White's the one to watch for. Blue, Green, Red will come to grief.
Before the fury of the White
They'll get knocked clear out of -"
The scuffling grew louder, and the songs degenerated into panting laughter. There was a clatter in Paul's receiver, a cry, a click, and then the dial tone.
Paul restored the receiver to its cradle with a limp hand. There was no quitting before the Meadows, he told himself glumly - no re-educating Anita and quitting in the few days remaining. The Meadows would have to be endured, and, worse luck, he would have to endure it as captain of the Blue Team.
His glance passed over the hairy tan chest, frank gray eyes, and keg-sized biceps of the man on the book jacket, and his thoughts slid easily, gratefully, into the fantasy of the new, good life ahead of him. Somewhere, outside of society, there was a place for a man - a man and wife - to live heartily and blamelessly, naturally, by hands and wits.
Paul studied his long, soft hands. Their only callus was on the large finger of his right hand. There, stained a dirty orange by cigarette tars, a tough hump had grown

over the years, protecting his finger against the attrition of pen and pencil shafts. Skills - that was what the hands of the heroes in the novels had, skills. To date, Paul's hands had learned to do little save grip a pen, pencil, toothbrush, hair brush, razor, knife, fork, spoon, cup, glass, faucet, doorknob, switch, handkerchief, towel, zipper, button, snap, bar of soap, book, comb, wife, or steering wheel.
He recalled his college days, and was sure he'd learned some sort of manual skill there. He'd learned to make mechanical drawings. That was when the lump on his finger had begun to grow. What else? He'd learned to bounce a ball off several walls with skill, and to the consternation of most of his squash opponents. He'd been good enough to make the quarter-finals of the Regional Collegiate Squash Tournament two years in a row. He used to be able to do that with his hands.
What else?
Again uneasiness crept up on him - the fear that there was far too little of him to get along anywhere outside the system, to get along at all contentedly. He might go into some small business, such as the one he claimed to be in when he didn't want to be recognized - wholesale groceries. But he would still be caught in the mesh of the economy and its concomitant hierarchy. The machines wouldn't let him into that business, anyway, and even if they would, there'd be no less nonsense and posturing. Moreover, despite the fact that Paul was saying to hell with the whole system, he was aware that the relatively unskilled and dull business of buying and selling was beneath him. So to hell with it. The only thing worse would be complete idleness, which Paul could afford, but which, he was sure, was as amoral as what he was quitting.
Farming - now there was a magic word. Like so many words with little magic from the past still clinging to them, the word "farming" was a reminder of what rugged stock the present generation had come from, of how tough a thing a human being could be if he had to. The word had little meaning in the present. There were no longer farmers, but only agricultural engineers. In the rich Iroquois Valley in Ilium County, thousands of settlers had once made their living from the soil. Now

Doctor Ormand van Curler managed the farming of the whole county with a hundred men and several million dollars' worth of machinery.
Farming. Paul's pulse quickened, and he daydreamed of living a century before - living in one of the many farmhouses now crumbling into their foundations over the valley. He chose one farmhouse in particular for his fantasy, one close to the edge of town that he'd often admired. He suddenly realized that the farm, the little patch of the past, wasn't a part of van Curler's farm system. He was almost sure it wasn't.
"Katharine," he called excitedly, "get me the Ilium Real Estate Manager on the phone."
"Ilium Real Estate Office. Doctor Pond speaking." Pond's speech was effeminate, lisping.
"Doctor Pond, this is Doctor Proteus at the Works."
"Well! What can I do for you, Doctor Proteus?"
"You know that farmhouse out on King Street, just outside the city limits?"
"Mmmm. Just a moment." Paul heard a machine shuffling through cards, and then a bell announced that the card had been found. "Yes, the Gottwald place. I have the card right here."
"What's being done with it?"
"A good question! What can be done with it? I wish I knew. It was a hobby with Gottwald, you know, keeping it just like an old-fashioned farm. When he died, the heirs wanted to get van Curler to take it over, but he said it wasn't worth bothering with. Two hundred acres is all, and he'd have to cut down the windbreaks to connect it with other fields so he could farm it efficiently. Then the heirs found out that they couldn't have sold it to the Farm System anyway. It's in the deed that the place has to be kept old-fashioned." He laughed bitterly. "So all old Gottwald left

his heirs was a nice headache, a white elephant."
"How much?"
"Are you serious? The thing's a museum exhibit, Doctor. I mean, almost nothing mechanical on the place. Even if you could beat the restrictions in the deed, it'd cost you thousands to get it in shape."
"How much?" The farm was looking better and better.
"Eighteen thousand, it says on the card." Before Paul could close the deal that instant, Pond added, "but you can get it for fifteen, I'm sure. How would twelve suit you?"
"Would five hundred hold it until I can look it over?"
"It's been holding itself for almost fourteen years. Go on out and have a look, if you really feel you have to. After you've thrown up, there are some really nice things I'd like to show you." The machine riffled through its cards again. "For instance, there's a nice Georgian house on Griffin Boulevard. Electronic door openers, thermostatically controlled windows, radar range, electrostatic dust precipitators, ultrasonic clothes washer built in, forty-inch television screens in the master bedroom, guest room, living room, kitchen, and rumpus rooms, and twenty- inch screens in the maids' rooms and the kiddies' rooms, and -"
"Where can I get the key to the farm?"
"Oh, that thing. Well, to give you an idea of what you're getting into, there is no lock. There's a latchstring."
"Latchstring?"
"Yes, latchstring. I had to go out myself to find out what the darn thing is. There's a latch on the inside of the door, with a string tied to it. When you want to let somebody just walk in, you stick the little string through a hole in the door, so

the string dangles outside. If you don't want people walking in, you pull the string in through the hole. Ghastly?"
"I'll survive somehow. Is the latchstring out?"
"There's a caretaker there, detailed from the Reeks and Wrecks. I'll call him and tell him to put it out. Confidentially, I'm sure they'll take eight."
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
The latchstring at the Gottwald house was out for Doctor Paul Proteus.
He tugged at it, listened with satisfaction as the latch disengaged itself inside, and walked in. The living room was dimly lit through tiny-paned, dusty windows, and what light did get in died without reflection on dull, dark antique surfaces. The floor rose and fell like a springboard beneath Paul's feet.
"The house breathes with you, like good underwear," said a lisping voice from the shadows. Paul looked in the direction from which it had come. The man sucked on his cigarette, lighting his moon face with a pink glow. "Doctor Proteus?"
"Yes."
"I'm Doctor Pond. Would you like me to turn on the lights?" "Please, Doctor."

"Well, there aren't any. Kerosene lanterns throughout. Want to wash your hands or something?"
"Well, not -"
"Because, if you do, there's a pump in the back yard, and an outhouse by the chicken coop. Would you like to see the termites, the dry rot, the hog pen, and the manurespreader, or shall we go to see that Georgian on Griffin Boulevard?" He walked to where they could see each other. Doctor Pond was very young, fat, and earnest, and plainly distressed by his surroundings.
"You're certainly eager to sell me the place," said Paul, laughing. With each new inconvenience, the place became more irresistible. It was a completely isolated backwater, cut off from the boiling rapids of history, society, and the economy. Timeless.
"I have a certain responsibility," said Doctor Pond carefully. "An administrator without a certain awareness, above and beyond the Manual, is like a ship without a rudder."
"He is?" said Paul absently. He was peering through a back window into the barnyard, and beyond that, through an opened barn door, where he could see the firm buff flank of a cow.
"Yes," said Doctor Pond, "like a ship without a rudder. For example, while the Manual doesn't tell me to do it, I make very sure that every man gets a house suited to his station on the ladder of life. The way a man lives can destroy or increase the stature of his job - can increase or decrease the stability and prestige of the entire system."
"You say I can get this whole farm for eight?"
"Please, Doctor - you put me in an uncomfortable position. I was excited when you first called, because this place has been such a headache for so long. But then my conscience started to work on me, and, well, I simply can't let you do it."

"I'll take it. Do the animals go with it?"
"Everything goes with it. That's in Gottwald's will and in the deed. It has to be kept just as it is and it must be farmed. See how impossible it is? Now, shall we go to Griffin Boulevard, where there's just the right house for the Manager of the Ilium Works?" When he spoke the title, his voice sounded like a choir of French horns.
"I want this."
"If you try to force me to sell it, I'll quit." Doctor Pond reddened. "My classification number may be twice what yours is, but I have a certain amount of integrity."
The word, coming from Pond, struck Paul as ridiculous at first, and he started to smile about it. Then he saw how tense the man was, and realized that what Pond was talking about was, by God, integrity. This pipsqueak of a man in a pipsqueak job had pipsqueak standards he was willing to lay his pipsqueak life down for. And Paul had a vision of civilization as a vast and faulty dike, with thousands of men like Doctor Pond in a rank stretching to the horizon, each man grimly stopping a leak with his finger.
"This would be a hobby, of course - a plaything," Paul lied. "I'd go on living where I'm living now."
Doctor Pond sighed and sank into a chair. "Oh - thank the Lord! Oh! You have no idea how much better I feel." He laughed in nervous relief. "Of course, of course, of course. And you'd keep Mr. Haycox on?"
"Who is Mr. Haycox?"
"The Reek and Wreck who's assigned to keep the place going. He's under orders from the Reeks and Wrecks, but of course the Gottwald estate pays him. You'd have to do the same."

"I'd like to meet him."
"He's an antique too." He threw his hands over his head. "What a place. I think you're mad, simply mad. But he who pays the piper calls the tune."
"As long as he doesn't threaten to disgrace the system."
"Exactly! That's almost good enough to carve over your mantel, but I doubt if the deed will let you."
"How about, 'After us the deluge,' " said Paul.
"Hmm?" Doctor Pond tried to make sense of the quotation, seemingly decided that it was some archaic, pleasant sentiment for those who understood poetry, and smiled. "That's nice too." Apparently the word "deluge" stuck in his mind. "Now, about the cellar here: it has an earth floor and is damp." He leaned out of the back door, wrinkled his nose in the sweet, stringent odor of manure cooking in the sunlight, and shouted, "Mr. Haycox! Oh, Mr. Haycox!"
Paul had opened the back of a grandfather clock. "I'll be damned," he said under his breath. "Wooden works." He checked his own watch, the shock-proof, waterproof, antimagnetic, glow-in-the-dark, self-winding chronometer Anita had given him for Christmas, and found that the grandfather clock was off by about twelve minutes. Indulging an atavistic whim, he set his watch to correspond with the hands of the relic, which grated and creaked away the seconds, sounding like a wooden ship straining in a strong wind.
The house was certainly one of the oldest in the valley. The rough rafters were inches above Paul's head, and the fireplace was sooted black, and there wasn't a true right angle anywhere. The house seemed to have twisted and stretched on its foundations until it had found a position of comfort for all of its parts - like a sleeping dog.
More remarkable than the way the house had relieved its stresses was the way it

conformed to Paul's particular, not to say peculiar, needs. Here was a place where he could work with his hands, getting life from nature without being disturbed by any human beings other than his wife. Not only that, but Anita, with her love for things colonial, would be enchanted, stunned, even, by this completely authentic microcosm of the past.
"Ah," said Doctor Pond, "Mr. Haycox at last. When you yell for him, he never yells back. Just starts coming, taking his own sweet time."
Paul watched Mr. Haycox's heavy-footed progress across the hard-packed earth of the barnyard. The caretaker was an old man, with close-cropped white hair, coarse, tanned skin, and, like Rudy Hertz, with remarkably big hands. Unlike Rudy, Mr. Haycox wasn't desiccated. His flesh was firm, hard, and well colored. The chief toll he seemed to have paid time was in teeth, of which he had few. He might have been part of a pageant recalling farm life as it had once been. He wore old-fashioned blue denim overalls, a wide-brimmed straw hat, and heavy, crusty work shoes.
As though to point up the anachronism of Mr. Haycox and the Gottwald place for Paul, one of Doctor Ormand van Curler's men, riding on a tractor, appeared on the other side of the windbreak, snappy in spotless white coveralls, a red baseball cap, cool sandals which almost never touched the ground, and white gloves which, like Paul's hands, rarely touched anything but steering wheels, levers, and switches.
"What do you want?" said Mr. Haycox. "What's the matter now?" His voice was strong. He had none of the sheepishness or obsequiousness Paul had seen so frequently in Reeks and Wrecks. Mr. Haycox bore himself as though he owned the place, wanted the talk to be as brief and pithy as possible, and doubted that whatever was wanted of him could possibly be more important than what he had been doing.
"Doctor Proteus - this is Mr. Haycox." "How are you?" said Paul.

" 'Do," said Mr. Haycox. "What kind of doctor?"
"Doctor of Science," said Paul.
Mr. Haycox seemed annoyed and disappointed. "Don't call that kind a doctor at all. Three kinds of doctors: dentists, vets, and physicians. You one of those?"
"No. Sorry."
"Then you ain't a doctor."
"He is a doctor," said Doctor Pond earnestly. "He knows how to keep machines healthy." He was trying to build up the importance of graduate degrees in the mind of this clod.
"Mechanic," said Mr. Haycox.
"Well," said Doctor Pond, "you can go to college and learn to be a specialist in all sorts of things besides making people or animals well. I mean, after all. The modern world would grind to a halt if there weren't men with enough advanced training to keep the complicated parts of civilization working smoothly."
"Um," said Mr. Haycox apathetically. "What do you keep working so smoothly?"
Doctor Pond smiled modestly. "I spent seven years in the Cornell Graduate School of Realty to qualify for a Doctor of Realty degree and get this job."
"Call yourself a doctor, too, do you?" said Mr. Haycox.
"I think I can say without fear of contradiction that I earned that degree," said Doctor Pond coolly. "My thesis was the third longest in any field in the country that year - eight hundred and ninety-six pages, double-spaced, with narrow margins."

"Real-estate salesman," said Mr. Haycox. He looked back and forth between Paul and Doctor Pond, waiting for them to say something worth his attention. When they'd failed to rally after twenty seconds, he turned to go. "I'm doctor of cowshit, pigshit, and chickenshit," he said. "When you doctors figure out what you want, you'll find me out in the barn shoveling my thesis."
"Mr. Haycox!" said Doctor Pond, furious. "You'll stay here until we're through with you!"
"Thought you was." He stopped, and stood perfectly motionless.
"Doctor Proteus is buying the farm."
"My farm?" Mr. Haycox turned slowly to face them, and real concern was in his eyes.
"The farm you've been taking care of," said Doctor Pond. "My farm."
"The Gottwald estate's farm," said Doctor Pond.
"That a man?"
"You know it isn't."
"Well, I'm a man. As far as men go, this here is my farm more'n it's anybody else's. I'm the only man who ever cared about it, ever did anything about it." He turned earnestly to Paul. "You know the will says you got to keep it just like it is?"
"I plan to."
"And keep me on," said Mr. Haycox.
"Well, I don't know for sure," said Paul. This was a complication he hadn't

foreseen. He planned to do the work himself. That was the point of the undertaking.
"That isn't in the will," said Doctor Pond, pleased to have found something that shocked respect into Mr. Haycox.
"All the same, you got to keep me on," said Mr. Haycox. "This is what I do." He gestured at the yard and buildings, all neat. "This is what I've done."
"Gottwald bought this place from Mr. Haycox's father," Doctor Pond explained. "There was some sort of informal agreement, I think, that Mr. Haycox could have the job of caretaker for his lifetime."
"Informal, hell!" said Mr. Haycox. "He promised, Gottwald did. This here's been our family's for more'n a hundred years - lots more. And I'm the last of the line, and Gottwald promised, by God, he promised it'd be the same as mine till it came time for me to go."
"Well, the time has come," said Doctor Pond.
"Dead - Gottwald meant when I was dead. I got twice as many years behind me as you do, sonny boy, and twice as many ahead of me." He moved closer to Doctor Pond, and squinted at him. "I've moved so many big piles of shit in my life, figure I could throw a little dab like you clean over the barn."
Doctor Pond's eyes widened, and he backed away. "We'll see about that," he said faintly.
"Look," said Paul hastily, "I'm sure we can work this out. Soon as I close the deal, Mr. Haycox, you'll be working for me."
"Things going to be just like they were?"
"My wife and I'll be coming out from time to time." Now didn't seem to be the time to tell him or anyone that he and Anita would be permanent residents.

Haycox didn't care for this much. "When?"
"We'll give you plenty of notice."
He nodded grimly. Then, unexpectedly and charmingly, Mr. Haycox smiled. "Wonder if I went and offended that there Doctor of Realty?" Pond had fled. "Well, I'll be getting back to work. Long as this here is going to be your farm, you might's well fix the pump. Needs a new packing."
"Afraid I don't know how," said Paul.
"Maybe," said Mr. Haycox walking away, "maybe if you'd of gone to college another ten or twenty years, somebody would of gotten around to showing you how, Doctor."
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
Anita seemingly mistook Paul's quite excitement for daydreams of happy hours to come at the Meadows, which were less than two weeks away.
She didn't know that he was learning to be a farmer and laying the groundwork for teaching her to be a farmer's wife.
It was a hot Saturday, and on the pretext of buying himself a fielder's mitt, Paul went to his farm - to his and Mr. Haycox's farm. There Mr. Haycox condescendingly and impatiently imparted half-truths about running the place, and gave Paul a vague confidence that he could get the hang of it after a while.

That evening at suppertime, Paul, satisfyingly pooped after having trailed Mr. Haycox for hours, asked his wife if she knew what day the coming Wednesday was.
She looked up from a list of things she was to pack for her trip to the Mainland and, more important, for Paul's trip to the Meadows. "Can't imagine. Have you got nice-looking tennis shoes for the trip?"
"They'll do. For your information, next Wednesday is -"
"Shepherd is taking twelve pairs of socks - all green. He's a captain, too, you know."
"I know."
"What do you make of that? It's kind of a surprise: the first time you get to be captain, he does, too."
"Maybe he sent a coupon to the Rosicrucians. How on earth do you know how many pairs of socks he's taking?"
"Well, he hasn't got a wife to help him plan, so he came over this afternoon to get my help. So I made a list of things he ought to take. Men are so helpless."
"They muddle through. Did he have anything interesting to say?"
She laid down the list and looked at him reproachfully. "Only about the police report about your pistol, and another one about the underworld people you were with that awful night in Homestead." She wadded her napkin and threw it down petulantly. "Paul - why don't you tell me these things? Why do I always have to find out from someone else?"
"Underworld!" snorted Paul. "Oh, for heaven's sake."
"Shepherd says Lasher and Finnerty are being watched as potential saboteurs."

"Everybody's being watched! Why do you listen to that old woman of a man!"
"Why don't you tell me what's going on?"
"Because those things were trivial. Because I was afraid you wouldn't see them that way and get all upset - the way you're getting upset. It's all fixed. Kroner fixed it."
"Shepherd said you could get ten years for the pistol business alone."
"Next time he's over, ask him if he has any idea how much time I'd get if I mashed up his long nose for him."
Paul's muscles were tight from the unaccustomed rigors of the afternoon, and animal smells had communicated to him a feel of primitive strength. The notion of pushing Shepherd's face in - a bizarre sport in a lifetime of pacifistic notions - came as an unexpected complement to the day. "Well, to hell with the captain of the Green Team, I say. Again I'll ask, what day is the coming Wednesday?"
"I'm sure I don't know."
"Our engagement anniversary."
It was an anniversary with disquieting connotations for both of them - an anniversary that neither had ever mentioned in their years of marriage. It was the date on which Anita had announced to Paul that she was with child, his child, and on which he had responded by offering her his name, etc. Now, with the event softened by years of more or less adequate marriage, Paul thought that they might sentimentally make it something that it was not. The anniversary, more to the point, fell at an ideal time for the beginning of his re-education program for Anita.
"And I have a special evening planned," he said; "not like any evening we've ever had together, darling."

"Funny, I'd forgotten the date completely. Really? Next Wednesday?" She gave him an odd, rebuking smile, as though the story of their engagement had got twisted in her mind - as though she thought he had brought about the event by a now insignificant deception. "Well, that's sweet," she said. "Kind of cute of you to remember. But, with the Meadows so close -" She was of such a methodical nature that when something of importance was in the offing, other aspects of life could have no importance at all. To her it seemed almost indecent to give attention to anything but the crucial matter of the Meadows.
"To hell with the Meadows."
"You don't mean that."
"I mean we're still going out next Wednesday."
"Well, I hope you know what you're doing. You're the captain." "I'm the captain."
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
Edgar R. B. Hagstrohm, thirty-seven, R&R - 131313, Undercoater First Class, 22nd Surface Preserving Battalion, 58th Maintenance Regiment, 110th Building and Grounds Division, Reconstruction and Reclamation Corps, had been named after his father's favorite author, the creator of Tarzan - Tarzan, who, far away from the soot and biting winter of the Hagstrohms' home town, Chicago, made friends with lions and elephants and apes, and swung through trees on vines, and was built like a brick outhouse with square wheels and Venetian blinds, and took

what he wanted of civilization's beautiful women in tree houses, and left the rest of civilization alone. E. R. B. Hagstrohm liked Tarzan as much as his father had, and hated being a little man and being in Chicago ten times as much.
And Edgar was reading about Tarzan in the bedroom when his fat wife, Wanda, called to him from her station before the picture window in the front room of their prefabricated home in Proteus Park, Chicago, a postwar development of three thousand dream houses for three thousand families with presumably identical dreams. "Gosh, here he comes, Edgar!"
"All right, all right, all right," said Edgar. "So he's coming! So what am I supposed to do, holler bloody murder, kiss his feet, and faint?" He took his time about getting off the bed, and he didn't smooth out the dent he'd made in the bedding. He laid his book open on the bedside table, so the visitors would see that he was a reader, and started for the living room. "What's he look like, Wan?"
"You gotta see, Ed - like a Chinese bird cage or something, all gold and fancy."
The Shah of Bratpuhr had asked his guide, Doctor Ewing J. Halyard, if he might see the home of a typical Takaru, freely translated, from one culture to another, as "average man." The request had been made as they were passing through Chicago from Carlsbad Caverns, and Halyard had stopped off at the local personnel office for the name of a representative American in the neighborhood.
The personnel machines had considered the problem and ejected the card of Edgar R. B. Hagstrohm, who was statistically average in every respect save for the number of his initials: his age (36), his height (5'7"), his weight (148 lbs.), his years of marriage (11), his I.Q. (83), the number of his children (2: 1 m., 9; 1 f., 6), the number of his bedrooms (2), his car (3 yr. old Chev. 2 dr. sed.), his education (h.s. grad, 117th in class of 233; maj. in business practice; 2nd string f'ball, b'k'tb'l; soc. comm., sen'r play; no coll.) his vocation (R&R), his avocations (spec'r sports, TV, softb'l, f'sh'g), and his war record (5 yrs., 3 ov'sea; T-4 radioman; 157th Inf. Div.; battle stars: Hjoring, Elbesan, Kabul, Kaifen, Ust Kyakhta; wounded 4 times; P'ple H't, 3 cl.; Silv. Star; Br'ze Star, 2 cl.; G'd Cond. Med.).

And the machines could have made an educated guess that, since Hagstrohm had gone that far in being average, he had probably been arrested once, had had sexual experience with five girls before marrying Wanda (only moderately satisfying), and had had two extramarital adventures since (one fleeting and foolish, the other rather long and disturbing), and that he would die at the age of 76.2 of a heart attack.
What the machines couldn't guess was that Edgar's second extramarital affair, the deep one, was with a widow named Marion Frascati, that it was still going on, and that Marion's deceased husband had been Lou Frascati, a second-coater first class, Edgar's best friend. To their own profound shock, Edgar and Marion had found themselves in each other's arms a scant month after good old Lou's death. And again, and again, and again - and they'd tried to bring it to an end, honest-to- God they had. But it was like a bright, fat cherry on the gray mush of their lives. And they thought, wistfully, weakly, that maybe it wouldn't really matter as long as no one was hurt - the kids; sweet, loyal Wanda. And that Lou wouldn't have wanted anything more, now that he had another variety of bliss, than that good old Edgar and good old Marion make the most of life while they had the use of their flesh.
But they hadn't believed it. And the kids noticed something screwy was going on, and Wanda'd cried a couple of times lately and refused to tell him why, and probably Lou, wherever he was. . . . Anyway, Edgar was going to go on seeing Marion, but he was going to tell Wanda, God bless her and God help her - tell her, and - Who was banging on the Hagstrohm door but the goddam Shah of Bratpuhr, for chrissakes.
"Come in, come in," said Edgar, and he added under his breath, "your majesty, your highness, emperor of the universe and all the ships at sea, you nosy son-of-a- bitch."
When Halyard had phoned him about the visit, Hagstrohm had made a point of not being impressed by the Shah's title, or by Halyard's rank. It was rare that he got the opportunity to show what he thought of rank - that a man was a man for all

that. He was going to behave perfectly naturally, just as he would if the callers had been fellow Reeks and Wrecks. Wanda had taken a different view, and had started frantically to clean the place from top to bottom, and to make lemonade and send Edgar, Jr., out for little cookies, but big Edgar had put a stop to all that. He put the kids out, and that was the only cleaning up that was to be done.
The door opened, and in came the Shah, followed by Khashdrahr, Halyard, and Doctor Ned Dodge, the manager of Proteus Park.
"Aha!" said the Shah, gingerly touching the enameled steel wall of the living room. "Mmmmm."
Edgar held out his hand, and the parade brushed past it, heedless. "Well, kiss mine," he muttered.
"Eh?" said Doctor Dodge.
"You heard me."
"You're not in a saloon now, Hagstrohm," whispered Dodge. "Watch yourself; this is international relations."
"All right if I go to a saloon?"
"What's eating you, anyway?"
"The guy walks into my house and won't even shake my hand." "It's not the custom in his country."
"Is it in yours?"
Dodge turned his back and grinned hospitably at the Shah. "Two bedrooms, living room with dining alcove, bath, and kitchen," he said. "This is the M-17 house. Radiant heating in the floor. The furniture was designed after an exhaustive

national survey of furniture likes and dislikes. The house, the furniture, and the lot are sold as a package. Simplified planning and production all the way round."
"Lakki-ti, Takaru?" piped the Shah, looking at Edgar closely for the first time. "What's he say?"
"He wants to know if you like it here," said Khashdrahr.
"Sure - I guess. It's all right. I suppose. Yeah."
"It's nice," said Wanda.
"Now, if you'll follow me into the kitchen," said Doctor Dodge, leaving Wanda and Edgar behind, "you'll see the radar range. Cooks by high frequency, and cooks the inside of whatever's being cooked as fast as the outside. Cooks anything in a matter of seconds, with perfect control. Make bread without a crust, if you want to."
"What is the matter with crust on bread?" asked Khashdrahr politely.
"And this is the ultrasonic dishwasher and clothes-washer," said Dodge. "High- frequency sound passing through the water strips dirt and grease off anything in a matter of seconds. Dip in, take out, bingo!"
"And then what does the woman do?" asked Khashdrahr.
"Then she puts the clothes or dishes in this drier, which dries them out in a matter of seconds, and - here's a nifty trick, I think - gives the clothes a spanking- clean outdoors odor, like they were dried in the sun, see, with this little ozone lamp in here."
"And then what?" asked Khashdrahr.
"She feeds the clothes through this ironer, which can do what was an hour's

ironing before the war in three minutes. Bing!"
"And then what does she do?" asked Khashdrahr.
"And then she's done."
"And then what?"
Doctor Dodge reddened perceptibly. "Is this a joke?"
"No," said Khashdrahr. "The Shah would like to know what it is that the woman Takaru -"
"What's a Takaru?" said Wanda suspiciously.
"Citizen," said Halyard.
"Yes," said Khashdrahr, smiling at her oddly, "citizen. The Shah would like to know why she has to do everything so quickly - this in a matter of seconds, that in a matter of seconds. What is it she is in such a hurry to get at? What is it she has to do, that she mustn't waste any time on these things?"
"Live!" said Doctor Dodge expansively. "Live! Get a little fun out of life." He laughed, and clapped Khashdrahr on the back, as though to jar him into feeling some of the jollity in this average American man's home.
The effect on Khashdrahr and the Shah was a poor one. "I see," said the interpreter coldly. He turned to Wanda. "And how is it you live and get so much fun out of life?"
Wanda blushed and looked down at the floor, and worried the carpet edge with her toe. "Oh, television," she murmured. "Watch that a lot, don't we, Ed? And I spend a lot of time with the kids, little Delores and young Edgar, Jr. You know. Things."

"Where are the children now?" asked Khashdrahr.
"Over at the neighbors' place, the Glocks, watching television, I expect."
"Would you like to see the ultrasonic washer work?" said Doctor Dodge. "Right before your eyes, bing! Takes off egg, lipstick, bloodstains -"
"The transducer's shot again," said Edgar, "so the washer's out of commission. Wanda's been doing the washing in a tub for a month now, waiting for a new transducer."
"Oh, I don't mind," said Wanda. "Really, I like doin' 'em that way. It's kind of a relief. A body needs a change. I don't mind. Gives me something to do."
Halyard ended the silence that followed her statement with a brisk suggestion that they leave these good people alone and have a look at the central recreation pavilion down the street.
"If we hurry," said Doctor Dodge, "we'll probably catch the leathercraft class still in session."
The Shah patted the radar stove, the laundry console, and peered for a moment at the television screen, which showed five persons seated around a conference table, arguing earnestly. "Brahouna!" he chuckled.
Khashdrahr nodded. "Brahouna! Live!"
As the party left, Halyard was explaining that the house and contents and car were all paid for by regular deductions from Edgar's R&RC pay check, along with premiums on his combination health, life, and old age security insurance, and that the furnishings and equipment were replaced from time to time with newer models as Edgar - or the payroll machines, rather - completed payments on the old ones. "He has a complete security package," said Halyard. "His standard of living is constantly rising, and he and the country at large are protected from the old economic ups and downs by the orderly, predictable consumer habits the payroll

machines give him. Used to be he'd buy on impulse, illogically, and industry would go nutty trying to figure out what he was going to buy next. Why, I remember when I was a little boy, we had a crazy neighbor who blew all his money on an electric organ, while he still had an old-fashioned icebox and kerosene stove in his kitchen!"
Edgar closed the door and leaned against it, against the door of his M-17 castle.
Wanda sank to the couch. "The place looked nice, I think," she said. She said it whenever a visitor - Amy Glock, Gladys Pelrine, the Shah of Bratpuhr, anybody - left.
"Yep," said Edgar. And he felt evil and damned as he looked at Wanda, good, good soul, who'd never done anything to offend him, whose love for him was as big as all outdoors. He fingered the three ten-dollar bills in his pocket, his take- home pay - cigarette money, recreation money, small luxury money the machines let him have. This tiny atom of the economy under his control he was going to spend, not on himself or Wanda or the kids, but on Marion. Edgar's troubled heart had gone out to the crazy man in Halyard's story, the guy who'd bought himself an electric organ. Expensive, impractical, strictly personal - above and beyond the goddamned package.
But deceit was another thing. "Wanda," said Edgar, "I'm no good."
She knew what he was talking about, all right. She wasn't in the least surprised. "Yes, you are, Edgar," she said lamely. "You're a fine man. I understand."
"About Marion?"
"Yes. She's very beautiful and charming. And I'm not exactly a girl any more, and I expect I'm pretty dull." She started to cry, and, good soul that she was, she tried to keep him from seeing it. She hurried into the kitchen, took four suppers from the deep freeze, and thrust them into the radar range. "Call the children, will you please, Edgar?" she said in a small, high voice. "Supper will be ready in twenty-eight seconds."

Edgar shouted the children's names into the twilight, and returned to Wanda. "Listen, Wan - it isn't you. The Lord knows it isn't your fault." He hugged her from behind, and she twisted away and pretended to adjust dials on the range, though there was no adjusting to be done. Clockwork was doing everything.
Chimes rang, the clockwork clicked, and the range's humming stopped. "Call the children before everything gets cold," she said.
"They're coming." Edgar tried to hug her again, and she let him this time. "Listen," he said passionately, "it's the world, Wan - me and the world. I'm no good to anybody, not in this world. Nothing but a Reek and Wreck, and that's all my kids'll be, and a guy's got to have kicks or he doesn't want to live - and the only kicks left for a dumb bastard like me are the bad ones. I'm no good, Wan, no good!"
"It's me that's no good to anybody," said Wanda wearily. "Nobody needs me. You or even little old Delores could run the house and all, it's so easy. And now I'm too fat for anybody but the kids to love me. My mother got fat, and my grandmother got fat, and guess it's in the blood; but somebody needed them, they were still some good. But you don't need me, Ed, and you can't help it if you don't love me any more. Just the way men are, and you can't help it if you're the way God made you." She looked at him lovingly, pityingly. "Poor man."
Delores and Edgar, Jr., bustled in, and Edgar and Wanda composed themselves and told their children all about the Shah.
The subject was soon exhausted, and at dinner only the children spoke and touched their food.
"Somebody sick?" said Edgar, Jr.
"Your mother isn't well. She has a headache," said Edgar. "Yeah? That's too bad, Mom."

"Just a little thing," said Wanda. "It'll pass."
"How about you, Pop?" said Edgar, Jr. "You well enough to take in the basketball game at the pavilion tonight?"
Edgar kept his eyes on his plate. "Like to," he mumbled. "Promised Joe I'd go bowling with him tonight."
"Joe Prince?"
"Yeah, Joe Prince."
"Why, Daddy," said Delores, "we saw Mr. Prince over to the Glocks', and he said he was going to the basketball game."
"He did not!" said Edgar, Jr., fiercely. "Just be quiet. You don't know what you're talking about. He didn't say that at all."
"He did, too!" said Delores stubbornly. "He said -"
"Delores, honey," said Wanda, "I'm sure you misunderstood Mr. Prince."
"Yes," said Edgar, Jr., "I remember now he said he was going bowling with Pop. Sis got it all wrong, Mom." His hands were trembling, and, clumsily, he knocked over his milk glass. Both he and his father jumped to their feet to catch it before it toppled all the way. Young Edgar caught it, and when his eyes met old Edgar's they were full of hate. "Guess I'm too tired to go to the ball game after all," he said. "Guess I'll stay home and watch television with Mom."
"Don't miss any good times on my account," said Wanda. "I get along just fine by myself."
There was a series of sharp taps on the picture window, and the Hagstrohms looked up to see the Shah of Bratpuhr rattling his ringed fingers against the glass.

He had just returned from the pavilion to the limousine, which had been left in front of the Hagstrohm's M-17 home.
"Brahouna!" cried the Shah cheerfully. He waved. "Brahouna, Takaru." " 'Live!' " translated Krashdrahr.
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
When Wednesday came, Paul stopped by his farm early in the morning and gave Mr. Haycox his instructions. Mr. Haycox made it clear that he wasn't a parlor maid.
Reluctantly, Paul gave Mr. Haycox to understand that he could do the job or clear out, and that the job had better be well done. It was that important to Paul that everything be perfect for the delicate transformation of Anita.
"You think you can just go around buying anybody to do anything you damn please," said Mr. Haycox. "Well, you're mistaken this time, Doctor. You can take your doctor's degree, and -"
"I don't want to fire you."
"Then don't!"
"For the last time, as a favor to me - " "Why didn't you say so in the first place?"

"Say what?"
" 'As a favor -' "
"All right; as a favor -"
"As a favor, just this once," said Mr. Haycox. "I'm no parlor maid, but I try to be a good friend."
"Thanks."
"Nothing at all. Don't mention it."
During the day, Anita called Paul to ask what she was to wear.
"Old clothes."
"A barn dance?"
"Not quite, but close. Dress as though it were."
"Paul, with the Meadows so close and all, do you think we should be going out and tearing around?"
"The Meadows isn't a funeral."
"It could be, Paul."
"Just for tonight, let's forget the Meadows. Tonight it's going to be just Paul and Anita, and to hell with everybody else."
"That's very easy to say, Paul. It's a sweet idea and everything, but -" "But what?" he asked irritably.

"Well, I don't know; I don't want to nag, but it does seem to me that you're being awfully slap-happy about the Meadows, about the Blue Team."
"What should I be doing?"
"Shouldn't you be training or something? I mean, shouldn't you be getting lots of sleep and eating the right foods and jogging around a little after work? And cutting down on cigarettes, maybe?"
"What?"
"You've got to be in shape if the Blue Team's going to win." Paul laughed.
"Now listen, Paul, you needn't laugh. Shepherd says he's seen careers made and broken by how men made out as team captains at the Meadows. Shepherd's given up smoking completely."
"You can tell him I've taken up hashish to speed up my reaction time. His fast ball will look like a toy balloon blowing over home plate. We are going out tonight."
"All right," she said gloomily. "All right." "I love you, Anita."
"I love you, Paul."
And she was ready when he got home, not as Ilium's Lady of the Manor but as a trim, kittenish girl in denim trousers rolled above her knees. She wore one of Paul's shirts, with its tails knotted below her breasts, white sneakers, and a red bandana about her neck.
"Is this right?"

"Perfect."
"Paul - I don't understand what's going on. I called up the Country Club, and they don't know about any barn dance. And neither do the clubs in Albany, Troy, or Schenectady." Anita, Paul knew, hated surprises, couldn't bear not to be on top of every situation.
"This is a private one," said Paul. "Just for the two of us. You'll see when the time comes."
"I want to know now."
"Where are our anniversary martinis?" The table where the pitcher and glasses awaited him every night was bare.
"You're on the wagon until after the Meadows."
"Don't be ridiculous! Everybody is going to be drinking for two weeks up there."
"Not the captains. Shepherd says they can't afford to drink."
"That shows how much he knows. The drinks are on the house."
Paul mixed martinis, drank more than his usual ration, and changed into a suit of stiff, crackling denim overalls he'd bought in Homestead that afternoon. He was sorry to see that Anita was getting no pleasure from the suspense he'd built up. Instead of happy anticipation, she showed signs of suspicion.
"Ready?" he said brightly.
"Yes - I suppose."
They walked in silence to the garage. With a grand gesture, Paul held the car door open.

"Oh, Paul, not the old car."
"There's a reason."
"There couldn't be a reason good enough to get me in that thing."
"Please, Anita - you'll see soon enough why we've got to take this one."
She got in and sat on the edge of the seat, trying to come in contact with the car as little as possible. "Honestly! I mean really!"
They rode like strangers. On the long grade by the golf course, however, she unbent a trifle. In the beams of the headlights was a pale and hairy man in green shorts, green socks, and a green shirt with the word "Captain" written across it. The man was jogging along the shoulder of the road, now and then breaking his pace to pirouette and shadowbox, then picking up his jogging again.
Paul blasted Shepherd with his automobile horn, and was delighted to see him bound across the ditch to get out of his way.
Anita rolled down her window and cheered.
The captain of the Green Team waved, his face twisted by exertion.
Paul pressed the throttle to the floor, laying down a cloud of burned oil and carbon monoxide.
"That man's got a lot of get up and go," said Anita.
"He fills me full of lie down and die," said Paul.
They were passing the battlements of the Ilium Works now, and one of the guards, recognizing Paul's car from his pillbox, waggled his fifty-caliber machine gun in friendly fashion.

Anita, who had been getting more and more restless, made as though to grab the wheel. "Paul! Where are you going? Are you crazy?"
He brushed her hand away, smiled, and kept on going across the bridge into Homestead.
The bridge was blocked again by Reeks and Wrecks who were painting yellow lines to mark traffic lanes. Paul looked at his watch. They had ten more minutes until time for, as the expression went, knocking off work. Paul wondered if Bud Calhoun had thought up this project. Like most of the R&R projects, it was, to Paul at least, ironic. The fourlane bridge had, before the war, been jammed with the cars of workers going to and from the Ilium Works. Four lanes had been nothing like enough, and a driver stayed within his lane or got the side of his car ground off. Now, at any time of day, a driver could swerve from one side of the bridge to the other with perhaps one chance in ten thousand of hitting another vehicle.
Paul came to a stop. Three men were painting, twelve were directing traffic, and another twelve were resting. Slowly, they opened a lane.
"Hey, Mac, your headlamp's busted."
"Thanks," said Paul.
Anita slid across the seat to get close to him, and he saw that she was scared stiff. "Paul - this is awful. Take me home."
Paul smiled patiently and drove into Homestead. The hydrant in front of the saloon by the end of the bridge was going again, and he had to park down the block. The same dirty boy was making paper boats for the amusement of the crowd. Leaning against a building and smoking nervously was a seedy old man who looked familiar to Paul. Then Paul realized that the man was Luke Lubbock, the indefatigable joiner, who was lost in the limbo of mufti, waiting for the next parade or meeting to start. With mixed emotions he looked around for Lasher and Finnerty, but saw no sign of them. Very probably they were in the saloon's dark,

rearmost booth, agreeing on everything.
"Paul - is this your idea of a joke? Take me home, please."
"Nobody's going to hurt you. These people are just your fellow Americans."
"Just because they were born in the same part of the world as I was, that doesn't mean I have to come down here and wallow with them."
Paul had expected this reaction, and remained patient in the face of it. Of all the people on the north side of the river, Anita was the only one whose contempt for those in Homestead was laced with active hatred. She was also the only wife on the north side who had never been to college at all. The usual attitude of the Country Club set toward Homesteaders was contempt, all right, but it had an affectionate and amused undertone, the same sort of sentiment felt by most for creatures of the woods and fields. Anita hated Homesteaders.
If Paul were ever moved to be extremely cruel to her, the cruelest thing he could do, he knew, would be to point out to her why she hated as she did: if he hadn't married her, this was where she'd be, what she'd be.
"We're not getting out," said Paul. "We'll just sit here a few minutes and watch. Then we'll move on."
"Watch what?"
"Whatever there is to see. The line painters, the man running the hydrant, the people watching him, the little boy making boats, the old men in the saloon. Just keep looking around. There's plenty to see."
She didn't look around, but slouched down in the seat and stared at her hands.
Paul had an idea what she was thinking - that for some reason she couldn't understand, he was doing this to humiliate her, to recall her humble origins. Had that been what he wanted to do, he would have been completely successful,

because her virulent hate had decayed. She'd fallen silent and tried to make herself small.
"You know why I brought you here?"
Her voice was a whisper. "No. But I want to go home, Paul. Please?"
"Anita - I brought us here because I think it's high time we got a completely new perspective, not on just our relationship to ourselves, but on our relationship to society as a whole." He didn't like the sound of the words as they came out, sententious and inflated. Their impact on Anita was nothing.
He tried again: "In order to get what we've got, Anita, we have, in effect, traded these people out of what was the most important thing on earth to them - the feeling of being needed and useful, the foundation of self-respect." That wasn't much good either. He wasn't getting through to Anita yet. She still seemed certain that she was somehow being punished by him.
He tried once more: "Darling, when I see what we've got, and then see what these people have got, I feel like a horse's ass."
A glimmering of understanding crossed Anita's face. Guardedly, she cheered up a little. "Then you're not mad at me?"
"Lord, no. Why should I be mad at you?"
"I don't know. I thought maybe you thought I nagged too much - or maybe you thought something was going on between Shepherd and me."
This last - this suggestion that he would ever worry about Shepherd - threw Paul completely off the orderly course of re-educating Anita. The notion that he might be jealous of the captain of the Green Team was so ludicrous, showed so poor an understanding, that it commanded his full attention. "I'll be jealous of Shepherd when you're jealous of Katharine Finch," he laughed.

This, to his surprise, Anita chose to take seriously. "You don't mean that!" "Mean what?"
"That I should be jealous of Katharine Finch. That dumpy little -"
"Wait a minute!" The conversation was really afield now. "I just meant there was about as much chance of there being something between Katharine and me as there was of there being something between you and Shepherd."
She was still on the defensive, and apparently hadn't grasped the negative sense of his parallel. She came back at him aggressively. "Well, Shepherd is certainly a more attractive man than Katharine is a woman."
"I'm not arguing that," said Paul desperately. "I don't want to argue that at all. There isn't anything between Katharine and me, and there isn't anything between you and Shepherd. I was simply pointing out how absurd it would be for either one of us to suspect the other."
"You don't think I'm attractive?"
"I think you're devastatingly attractive. You know that." His voice had gotten loud, and as he glanced out at the street scene he saw that he and Anita, the would- be observers, were being observed. A paper boat shot the rapids to the storm sewer unnoticed. "I didn't bring us here to accuse each other of adultery," he whispered hoarsely.
"Then why did you?"
"I told you: so we could both get the feel of the world as a whole, not just our side of the river. So we could see what our way of life has done to the lives of others."
Anita was on top of the situation now, having successfully attacked and confused Paul, and having found that she wasn't being baited or punished. "They

all look perfectly well fed to me."
"But they've had the spiritual stuffing knocked out of them by people like my father, like Kroner and Baer and Shepherd, like us."
"They couldn't have been too well stuffed in the first place, or they wouldn't be here."
Paul was mad, and the delicate mechanism that kept him from hurting her stripped its gears. "Here, but for the grace of God, go you!"
"Paul!" She burst into tears. "That's not fair," she said brokenly. "Not at all fair. I don't know why you had to say that."
"It isn't fair for you to cry."
"You're cruel, that's what you are - just plain cruel. If you wanted to hurt me, congratulate yourself. You certainly did." She blew her nose. "I must have had something these people don't, or you wouldn't have married me."
"Oligomenorrhea," he said.
She blinked. "What's that?"
"Oligomenorrhea - that's what you had that these others don't. Means delayed menstrual period."
"How on earth did you ever learn a word like that?"
"I looked it up a month after we were married, and it etched itself on the inside of my skull."
"Oh." She turned crimson. "You've said enough, quite enough," she said bitterly. "If you won't drive me home, I'll walk."

Paul started the car, abused the gears with savage satisfaction, and drove back across the bridge, toward the north side of the river.
When they'd reached the mid-point of the bridge, he was still warmed and excited by the sudden fight with Anita. By the time they were under the guns of the Ilium Works, rationality and remorse were setting in.
The fight had been a complete surprise. Never had they gone at it so poisonously. More surprising, Paul had been the vicious one, and Anita had been little more than a victim. Confusedly he tried to remember the events that had led up to the fight. His memory was no help.
And how completely fruitless and destructive the fight had been! In the heat of a bad instant he had said what he knew would hurt her most, would, by extension, make her hate him most. And he hadn't wanted to do that. God knows he hadn't. And here he was with his cheery and careful plans for starting a new life with her shot to hell.
They were passing the golf course now. In minutes they'd be home.
"Anita -"
By way of an answer, she turned on the car radio and impatiently twiddled the dials, waiting for the volume to come up, presumably to drown him out. The radio hadn't worked for years.
"Anita - listen. I love you more than anybody on earth. Good God but I'm sorry about what we said to each other."
"I didn't say anything to you like what you said to me." "I could cut my tongue out for having said those things." "Don't use any of our good kitchen knives."

"It was a freak."
"So am I, apparently. You passed our driveway."
"I meant to. I have a surprise for you. Then you'll see how much I really love you - how insignificant that stupid fight was."
"I've had quite enough surprises tonight, thank you. Turn around, please. I'm worn out."
"This surprise cost eight thousand, Anita. Still want to turn around?"
"Think I can be bought, do you?" she said angrily, but her expression was softening, answering her own question. "What on earth could it be? Really? Eight thousand dollars?"
Paul relaxed, settling back in his seat to enjoy the ride. "You don't belong in Homestead, sweetheart."
"Oh, hell - maybe I do."
"No, no. You've got something the tests and machines will never be able to measure: you're artistic. That's one of the tragedies of our times, that no machine has ever been built that can recognize that quality, appreciate it, foster it, sympathize with it."
"It is," said Anita sadly. "It is, it is." "I love you, Anita."
"I love you, Paul."
"Look! A deer!" Paul flicked on his bright lights to illuminate the animal, and recognized the captain of the Green Team, still jogging, but now in an advanced state of exhaustion. Shepherd's legs flailed about weakly and disjointedly, and his

feet struck the pavement with loud, limp slaps. There was no recognition in his eyes this time, and he floundered on heedlessly.
"With every step he hammers another nail into my coffin," said Paul, lighting a fresh cigarette from the one he had just finished.
Ten minutes later he stopped the car, went around to Anita's side, and affectionately offered his arm. "The latchstring is out, darling, for a whole new and happier life for the two of us."
"What does that mean?"
"You'll see." He led her to the front door of the low little house through a dark, fragrant tunnel roofed and walled by lilacs. He took her hand and placed it on the latchstring. "Pull."
She tugged gingerly. The latch inside clattered free, and the door swung open. "Oh! Ohhhh - Paul!"
"Ours. This belongs to Paul and Anita."
She walked in slowly, her head back, her nostrils wide. "I feel like crying, it's so darling."
Hastily, Paul checked the preparations for the tricky hours ahead, and was delighted. Mr. Haycox, probably in an orgy of masochism, had scrubbed every surface. Gone were the soot and dust, leaving only the clean, soft, glowing patina of age over everything - the pewter on the mantel, the cherry case of the grandfather clock, the black ironware on the hearth, the walnut stock and silver inlays of the long rifle on the wall, the tin potbellies of the kerosene lamps, the warm, worn maple of the chairs. . . . And on a table in the center of the room, looking archaic, too, in the soft light, were two glasses, a pitcher, a bottle of gin, a bottle of vermouth, and a bucket of ice. And beside these were two glasses of whole, fresh milk from the farm, fresh hard-boiled eggs from the farm, fresh peas from the farm, and fresh fried chicken from the farm.

As Paul mixed the drinks, Anita went about the room sighing happily, touching everything lovingly. "Is it really ours?"
"As of yesterday. I signed the final papers. Do you really feel at home here?"
She dropped into a chair before the fireplace and took the glass he handed her. "Can't you tell? Don't I radiate how I feel?" She laughed quietly. "He wants to know if I like it. It's priceless, you brilliant darling, and you got it for eight thousand dollars! Aren't you smart!"
"Happy anniversary, Anita."
"I want a stronger word than happy."
"Ecstatic anniversary, Anita."
"Ecstatic anniversary to you, Paul. I love you. Lord, how I love you!"
"I love you." He had never loved her so much.
"Do you realize, darling, that that grandfather clock alone is worth almost a thousand dollars?"
Paul felt terribly clever. It was fantastic how well things were turning out. Anita's contentment with the place was genuine, and the process of weaning her from one house to another, from one way of life to another, seemed, in a miraculous few minutes, to have been almost completed. "This is your kind of surroundings, isn't it."
"You know it is."
"Did you know the clock had wooden works? Think of it? Every part whittled out of wood."

"Don't worry about it. That's easily remedied." "Hmm?"
"We can get an electric movement put in." "But the whole charm -"
She was in a transport of creativity now, and didn't hear him. "You see - with the pendulum gone, an electrostatic dust precipitator would fit right in the lower part of the case."
"Oh."
"And you know where I'd put it?"
He looked around the room and saw no spot for it other than where it was. "That niche there seems ideal."
"In the front hall! Can't you just see it there?"
"There is no front hall," he said in puzzlement. The front door opened right into the living room.
"Our front hall, silly."
"But, Anita -"
"And that spice cabinet on the wall - wouldn't it be darling with some of the drawers sticking out, and with philodendron growing from them? I know just the spot in the guest room."
"Swell."
"And these priceless rafters, Paul! This means we can have rough-hewn beams

in our living room, too. Not just in the kitchen, but the living room, too! And I'll eat your classification card if that dry-sink won't take our television set."
"I was looking forward to eating it myself," said Paul quietly.
"And these wide-board floors: you can imagine what they'll do for the rumpus room."
"What did the rumpus room ever do for me?" said Paul grimly.
"What did you say?"
"I said, what did the rumpus room ever do for me?"
"Oh. I see." She laughed perfunctorily and, her eyes bright, she searched for more plunder.
"Anita -"
"Yes? Oh! What a delightful Cape Cod lighter."
"Listen to me for just a minute."
"Certainly, darling."
"I bought this place for us to live in."
"You mean just the way it is?"
"Exactly. It can't be changed."
"You mean we can't take any of these things out?"
"No. But we can move ourselves in."
"This is another one of your jokes. Don't tease me, darling. I'm having such a

good time."
"I'm not teasing! This is the life I want. This is where I want to live it."
"It's so dark, I can't see by your face whether you're serious or not. Turn on the lights."
"No lights."
"No electricity?"
"Only what's in your hair."
"How do they run the furnace?"
"No furnace."
"And the stove?"
"Firewood. And the refrigerator is a cold spring."
"How perfectly hideous!"
"I'm serious, Anita. I want us to live here."
"We'd die in six months."
"The Haycox family lived here for generations."
"You are playful tonight, aren't you? Just so straight-faced and everything, keeping your joke alive. Come here and kiss me, you sweet clown."
"We're going to spend the night here, and tomorrow I'm going to do the chores. Will you give it a try, anyway?"
"And I'll be a good old fat farm Mama, and get breakfast on the wood stove -

coffee, home-grown eggs and cream, home-baked biscuits drowned in homemade butter and jam."
"Would you?"
"I'd drown in butter and jam first." "You could learn to love this life." "I couldn't, and you know it."
His temper was rising again, in response to bitter disappointment, as it had done an hour before in Homestead. And again he was looking for something short of a slap in her face that would shock humility into her. The sentence that came out had been ready for a long time. He spoke it now, not because now was the right time, but because it packed a punch.
"It doesn't matter what you think," he said evenly. "I've made up my mind to quit my job and live here. Do you understand? I'm going to quit."
She folded her arms across her chest, as though fighting a chill, and rocked in silence for a few moments. "I thought maybe that was coming," she said at last. "I thought maybe that was what you were up to. I'd hoped it wasn't, Paul. I'd prayed it wasn't. But - well, here we are, and you've said it." She lit a cigarette, smoked it in shallow, tasteless puffs, and blew the smoke through her nose. "Shepherd said you would."
"He said I was about to quit?"
"No. He said you were a quitter." She sighed heavily. "He knows you better than I do, apparently."
"God knows it'd be easy enough to stick with the system, and keep going right on up. It's getting out that takes nerve."

"But why quit, if it's so easy to stick with it?"
"Didn't you hear anything I said in Homestead? That's why I took you there, so you'd get the feel of things."
"That silly business about Katharine Finch and Shepherd?"
"No, no - God no. About how people like us have taken all the self-respect from all the others."
"You said you felt like a horse's ass. I remember that." "Don't you, sometimes?"
"What an idea!"
"Your conscience, dammit - doesn't it ever bother you?" "Why should it? I've never done anything dishonest."
"Let me put it another way: do you agree things are a mess?" "Between us?"
"Everywhere! The world!" She could be appallingly nearsighted. Whenever possible, she liked to reduce any generalization to terms of herself and persons she knew intimately. "Homestead, for instance."
"What else could we possibly give the people that they haven't got?"
"There! You made my point for me. You said, what else could we give them, as though everything in the world were ours to give or withhold."
"Somebody's got to take responsibility, and that's just the way it is when somebody does."

"That's just it: things haven't always been that way. It's new, and it's people like us who've brought it about. Hell, everybody used to have some personal skill or willingness to work or something he could trade for what he wanted. Now that the machines have taken over, it's quite somebody who has anything to offer. All most people can do is hope to be given something."
"If someone has brains," said Anita firmly, "he can still get to the top. That's the American way, Paul, and it hasn't changed." She looked at him appraisingly. "Brains and nerve, Paul."
"And blinders." The punch was gone from his voice, and he felt drugged, a drowsiness from a little too much to drink, from scrambling over a series of emotional peaks and pits, from utter frustration.
Anita caught the strap of his overalls and pulled him down to kiss him. Paul yielded stiffly.
"Ohhhhhhh," she chided, "you're such a little boy sometimes." She pulled him down again, this time making sure he kissed her on the lips. "You stop worrying, now, you hear?" she whispered in his ear.
"Descent into the Maelstrom," he thought wearily, and closed his eyes, and gave himself over to the one sequence of events that had never failed to provide a beginning, a middle, and a satisfactory end.
"I love you, Paul," she murmured. "I don't want my little boy to worry. You're not going to quit, sweetheart. You're just awfully tired."
"Mmmm."
"Promise not to think any more about it?" "Mmmm."
"And, we are going to Pittsburgh, aren't we?"

"Mmmm."
"And what team is going to win at the Meadows?" "Mmmm."
"Paul -"
"Hmmm?"
"What team is going to win?"
"Blue," he whispered sleepily. "Blue, by God, Blue." "That's my boy. Your father would be awfully proud." "Yup."
He carried her across the wide-board floor into the pine-wainscoted bedroom and laid her down on a patchwork quilt on a bird's-eye maple bed. There, Mr. Haycox had told him, six independent people had died, and fourteen had been born.
CHAPTER NINETEEN
Doctor Paul Proteus, for want of a blow severe enough to knock him off the course dictated by the circumstances of his birth and training, arrived uneventfully

at the day when it was time for men whose development was not yet complete to go to the Meadows.
The crisis was coming, he knew, when he would have to quit or turn informer, but its approach was unreal, and, lacking a decisive plan for meeting it, he forced a false tranquillity on himself - a vague notion that everything would come out all right in the end, the way it always had for him.
The big passenger plane, after an hour in the air, circled over the shore, where the pine forest met the waters at the source of the St. Lawrence. The plane dropped lower, and the landing strip in the forest could be seen, and then the cluster of log lodges and dining hall and shuffleboard courts and tennis courts and badminton courts and softball diamonds and swings and slides and bingo pavilion of the Mainland, the camp for women and children. And jutting into the river was a long dock and three white yachts, the port of embarkation for men going to the island called the Meadows.
"I guess this is just about goodbye," said Paul to Anita, as the plane came to a stop.
"You look wonderful," said Anita, straightening his blue captain's shirt for him. "And what team is going to win?"
"Blue," said Paul. "Gott mit uns."
"Now, I'm going to be working on Mom here, while -"
"Ladies over here!" boomed the public address system. "Men will assemble over on the dock. Leave your luggage where it is. It will be in your cabins when you arrive."
"Goodbye, darling," said Anita. "Goodbye, Anita."

"I love you, Paul."
"I love you, Anita."
"Come on," said Shepherd, who had arrived on the same plane. "Let's get going. I'm anxious to see just how hot this Blue Team is."
"Blue Team, eh?" said Baer. "Worried about the Blue Team, are you, eh? Eh? White. White's the one to look out for, boy." He stretched out his white shirt for them to admire. "See? See? That's the shirt to look out for. See? Aha, aha -"
"Where's Doctor Kroner?" said Shepherd.
"Went up yesterday," said Paul. "He's among the official greeters, so he's already on the island." He waved once more to Anita, who was going down a gravel path toward the Mainland's buildings with a dozen other women, Katharine Finch and Mom Kroner among them, and a handful of children. All day, planes would be bringing more.
Anita sidled up to Mom and took her fat arm.
Concealed loudspeakers in the virgin forest burst into song:
"To you, beautiful lady, I raise my eyes;
My heart, beautiful lady, to your heart sighs. Come, come, beautiful lady, to Paradise . . ."
The song died in a clatter in the loudspeaker, a cough, and then a command: "Men with classification numbers from zero to one hundred will please board the Queen of the Meadows; those with numbers from one hundred to two hundred and

fifty will board the Meadow Lark; those with numbers above two hundred and fifty will get on the Spirit of the Meadows."
Paul, Shepherd, Baer, and the rest of the contingent from the Albany-Troy- Schenectady-Ilium area walked out onto the dock where earlier arrivals were waiting. All put on dark glasses, which they would wear during the next two weeks to protect their eyes from the unrelenting glare of the summer sun on the river, and on the whitewashed buildings, white gravel paths, white beach, and white cement courts of the Meadows.
"Green's going to win!" shouted Shepherd.
"You tell 'em, Cap!"
Everyone shouted and sang, the marine engines burbled and roared, and the three yachts shot toward the island in V-formation.
Squinting through spray, Paul watched the Meadows come closer and closer, hot, bleached, and sanitary. The white serpent stretching the island's length could now be seen as a row of white cubes, the insulated cement-block structures called, in Meadows parlance dating back to more primitive facilities, tents. The amphitheater on the island's northernmost tip looked like a dinner plate, and the sports area around it was a geometric patchwork of every imaginable kind of court. Whitewashed rocks everywhere framed the paths and gar -
The air quaked with a sharp, painful crash. And another. Another. "Blam!"
Rockets from the island were exploding overhead. In another minute the three yachts were rumbling and fuming into their slips, and the band was playing "The Star-Spangled Banner."
"And the rockets red glare,

The bombs bursting in air . . ."
The bandmaster held up his baton, and the bandsmen paused significantly.
"Vuuuuzzzzzzip!" went a rocket. "Kablooooom!" "Gave proof through the night,
That our flag was still there . . ."
After the anthem came a cheery kaleidoscope of "Pack Up Your Troubles," "I Want a Girl," "Take Me Out to the Ball Game," "Working on the Railroad."
The new arrivals scrambled over the decks to catch the hands extended from the wharf by a rank of older men, most of whom were fat, gray, and balding. These were the Grand Old Men - the district managers, the regional managers, the associate vice-presidents and assistant vice-presidents and vice-presidents of the Eastern and Middle-Western divisions.
"Welcome aboard!" was the greeting, and always had been. "Welcome aboard!"
Paul saw that Kroner was reserving his big hand and welcome for him, and he picked his way across the deck until he reached the hand, took it, and stepped to the wharf.
"Good to have you aboard, Paul."
"Thank you, sir. It's good to be aboard." A number of the other older men paused in their greetings to look in friendly fashion at the bright young son of their departed wartime leader.

"Report to the Ad Building for registration, then check into your tents to make sure your luggage is there," said the public address system. "Get to know your tentmate, then lunch."
With the band leading them, the new arrivals swung along the gravel walk to the Administration Building.
Across the building's entrance was a banner declaring: "The Blue Team Welcomes You to the Meadows."
There were cries of good-natured outrage, and human pyramids were built in a twinkling, with the top men clawing down the infuriating message.
A young member of the Blue Team slapped Paul on the back. "What an idea, Cap'n!" he crowed. "Boy, that really showed 'em who's got the wide-awake outfit. And we'll go on showing these guys, too."
"Yep," said Paul, "you bet. That's the spirit." Apparently this was the youngster's first visit to the Meadows. In this state of nature he didn't know that the banner was the work of a special committee whose sole mission was to stir up team rivalry. There would be more such goads at every turn.
Inside the door was a green placard: "Abandon All Hope, Ye Who Don't Wear Green Shirts!"
Shepherd whooped delightedly, brandished the placard overhead, and in the next second was thrown to the floor by a wave of Blues, Whites, and Reds.
"No rough-housing indoors!" said the loudspeaker sharply. "You know the rules. No roughhousing indoors. Save your ginger for the playing field. After registration, report to your tents, get to know your buddies, and be back for lunch in fifteen minutes."
Paul arrived at his tent ahead of his as yet unknown buddy. The two of them,

according to the foreword in the Song Book, would develop a sort of common-law brotherhood as a result of their having shared so much beauty, excitement, and deep emotion together.
The chill of the air-conditioned room made him feel dizzy. Coming out of this flicker of vertigo, Paul's eyes focused on a dinner-plate-size badge on the pillow of his bunk. "Dr. Paul Proteus, Wks. Mgr., Ilium, N. Y.," it said. And, below this, "Call Me Paul or Pay Me $5." The second part of the legend was on every badge. The only man who was not to be called by his first name at the Meadows was the Old Man himself, the successor of Paul's father, Doctor Francis Eldgrin Gelhorne. He, National Industrial, Commercial, Communications, Foodstuffs, and Resource Director, was damn well Doctor Gelhorne, sir, at any hour of the night or day, and anywhere he went.
And then Paul saw the badge on his buddy's pillow: "Dr. Frederick Garth, Wks. Mgr., Buffalo, N. Y. Call Me Fred or Pay Me $5."
Paul sat down on the edge of his bed and struggled against the uneasy perplexity the sight of Garth's badge had precipitated. He had known many men, Shepherd for instance, who were forever seeing omens and worrying about them - omens in a superior's handshake, in the misspelling of a name in an official document, in the seating arrangement of a banquet table, in a superior's asking for or offering a cigarette, in the tone of . . . Paul's career, until recent weeks, had been graceful and easy all the way, and he'd found omen analysis dull, profitless. For him the omens were all good - or had been until now. Now, he, too, was growing aware of possibly malevolent spooks, revealing themselves in oblique ways.
Was it chance or ignorance or some subtle plot that had put him in the same cell with Garth, the other candidate for Pittsburgh? And why had Shepherd been made a captain, when the honor was reserved for those who were going high and far indeed? And why. . . . Manfully, Paul turned his thoughts into other channels, superficially, at least, and managed to laugh like a man who didn't give a damn about the system any more.

His buddy walked in, gray at the temples, tired, pale, and kind. Fred Garth wanted desperately to be liked by everyone, and had achieved a sort of social limbo, affecting no one very much one way or the other. He had risen because of this quality rather than in spite of it. Time and time again two powerful personalities, backed by impressive factions, had aspired for the same job. And the top brass, fearing a split if they chose one faction's man over the other, had named Garth as an inoffensive compromise candidate. There was a feeling, general enough not to be branded sour grapes, that Garth was all but over his head in the big assignments compromise politics had handed him. Now, though he was only in his early fifties, he seemed terribly old - willing, goodhearted, but apologetically weak, used up.
"Doctor Proteus! I mean Paul." Garth shook his head, laughed as though he'd done a comical thing, and offered a five-dollar bill to Paul.
"Forget it, Doctor Garth," said Paul, and handed it back to him. "I mean Fred. How are you?"
"Fine, fine. Can't complain. How's the wife and children?" "All fine, fine, thanks."
Garth blushed. "Oh say, I'm sorry."
"About what?"
"I mean, that was silly of me, asking about your children when you haven't got any."
"Silly of me not to have any."
"Maybe, maybe. It's a trial, though, watching your kids grow up, wondering if they've got what it takes, seeing 'em just about killing themselves before the General Classification Tests, then waiting for the grades -" The sentence ended in a sigh. "I've just gone through that GCT business with my oldest, Brud, and I've

got to live through the whole nightmare twice more still, with Alice and little Ewing."
"How'd Brud make out?"
"Hmmm? Oh - how'd he make out? His heart's in the right place. He wants to do well, and he boned up harder for the tests than any kid in the neighborhood. He does the best he can."
"Oh - I see."
"Well, he's going to get another crack at the tests - different ones, of course. He was under the weather when he took them the first time - tail end of some virus business. He didn't miss by much, and the Appeal Board made a special ruling. He gets his second chance tomorrow, and we'll have the grades around suppertime."
"He'll make it this time," said Paul.
Garth shook his head. "You'd think they'd give a kid something for trying, wouldn't you? God, you oughta see the little guy plugging away."
"Nice day," said Paul, changing the distressing subject.
Garth looked out of the window abstractedly. "It is, isn't it. God smiles on the Meadows."
"Probably did before we occupied it." "I didn't make that up."
"Make what up?"
"About God smiling. That's from Doctor Gelhorne, of course. Remember? He said that last year on the closing day."

"Yep." Doctor Gelhorne said so many memorable things, it was hard for a person to stow them all away in his treasure house of souvenirs.
"Lunch!" said the loudspeakers. "Lunch! Remember the rule: get to know somebody new at each meal. Have your buddy on one side, but a stranger on the other. Lunch! Lunch!" Irrelevantly, the speakers blared "Oh How I Hate to Get Up in the Morning." Paul and Garth and five hundred other pairs walked across the parade ground to the dining hall.
As the crowd bore Paul and his buddy through the swinging screen doors, Kroner caught his arm and drew him to one side. Garth, like the good buddy he wanted to be, stepped out of line and waited.
"Tomorrow night," said Kroner. "The big meeting is tomorrow night - after the keynote play and bonfire."
"Fine."
"I told you the Old Man himself is coming. It's going to be that important. You're going to be that important. I don't quite know what's up, but I've a hunch it's going to be the biggest thing in your career."
"Gosh."
"Don't worry. With the blood you've got in your veins, you've got more than what it'll take to do the job - whatever it is."
"Thanks."
Paul got back in line with Garth. "He certainly likes you, doesn't he?" said Garth.
"Old friend of my father's. Said it was good to have me aboard."
"Oh." Garth looked a little embarrassed. Paul's bald lie had pointed up for the

first time their competitive situation. He let the lie pass. Shepherd would have hounded Paul, and, more subtly, Kroner, until he'd learned every word that had passed between them.
Paul felt real warmth for Garth. "Come on, buddy, let's find a couple of strangers."
"It's going to be tough. We've been around a long time, Paul." "Look for some apple-cheeked youngster fresh out of school." "There's one."
"Berringer!" said Paul, amazed. When the machines had made a list of Ilium men eligible for the Meadows, Berringer's card had stayed in its slot. He was the last man in the whole Works who deserved an invitation. Yet, here he was.
Berringer seemed to know what was going through Paul's head, and he returned Paul's gaze with an insolent smile.
Baer stepped between them. "Forgot, forgot - supposed to tell you," he said. "Berringer, about Berringer. Kroner said to tell you, and I forgot, forgot."
"How the hell did he get up here?"
"Kroner brought him up. Last minute thing, see? Hmm? Kroner thought it'd break his father's heart if the boy wasn't asked, and after what happened to Checker Charley and all."
"There goes the merit system," said Paul.
Baer nodded. "Yep - there it goes, there it goes, all right." He shrugged and raised his eyebrows quizzically. "Zip zip, out the window."
Paul reflected that Baer was possibly the most just, reasonable, and candid

person he'd ever known - remarkably machine-like in that the only problems he interested himself in were those brought to him, and in that he went to work on all problems with equal energy and interest, insensitive to quality and scale.
Paul glanced once more at Berringer, saw his luncheon companion was Shepherd and that his shirt was green, and forgot about him.
He and Garth finally found a pair of very young strangers with two empty seats between them, and sat down.
The redheaded youngster next to Paul looked at his badge. "Oh, Doctor Proteus. I've heard of you. How are you, sir?"
"Paul, not Doctor. Fine, how are you - " he studied his companion's badge "Doctor Edmund L. Harrison, of the Ithaca Works?"
"Get to know the man next to you," said the loudspeaker. "Don't talk to anyone you know."
"Married?" said Paul.
"That's what you're here for, to get to know new people, to broaden your horizons," said the loudspeaker.
"Nossir, I'm en -"
"The more contacts you make here at the Meadows," said the loudspeaker, "the more smoothly industry will function, co-operationwise."
"I'm engaged," said Doctor Harrison.
"An Ithaca girl?"
"Two seats right over here, gentlemen - over in the corner. Right over there. Let's get our seats quickly, because there's a full program, and everybody wants to

get down to knowing everybody else," said the loudspeaker.
"Nossir," said Doctor Harrison. "Atlanta." He looked at Paul's badge again. "Aren't you the son of -"
"Now that we're all seated and getting to know one another, how about a little song to pull us all together?" said the loudspeaker.
"Yes, he was my father," said Paul.
"Turn to page twenty-eight of the Song Book," said the loudspeaker. "Twenty- eight, twenty-eight!"
"He was quite a man," said Harrison.
"Yes," said Paul.
" 'Wait Till the Sun Shines, Nellie!' " shouted the loudspeaker. "Find it? Twenty- eight! All right, now, let's go!"
The band at the far end of the hall, amplified to the din of an elephant charge, smashed and hewed at the tune as though in a holy war against silence. It was impossible even to be cordial to oneself in the midst of the uproar. Paul's stomach knotted and his tastebuds went dead, and the delicious, expensive food went down his gullet like boiled horsemeat and hominy grits.
"Paul, Paul, Paul, oh Paul!" shouted Baer from across the table. "Paul!" "What?"
"That's you - you they're calling for; they're calling for you!"
"Don't tell me the captain of the Blue Team is such a coward he ran out at the last minute," the loudspeaker was saying sarcastically. "Come on! Where's that Blue captain?"

Paul stood, and held up his hand. "Here," he said in a voice inaudible even to himself.
Cheers and boos greeted him, in a proportion of one to three. He was pelted by wadded paper napkins and maraschino cherries from the tops of salads.
"Well," said the loudspeaker tauntingly, "let's hear your song."
Hands gripped Paul and hoisted him into the air, and he was borne down the aisle toward the bandstand by a flying wedge of blue-shirted men. They dumped him on the bandstand and formed a cordon about him. The master of ceremonies, a fat, red old man with breasts like a woman's sticking through his wet T-shirt, thrust a Song Book into his hands. The band blasted out the fight song of the Blue Team.
"Oh you Blue Team, you tried and true team," said Paul. His voice came back at him, strange and frightening, amplified electronically to fierce defiance and determination. "There are no teams as good as you!"
At this point he was completely drowned out by the stamping of feet, whistles, catcalls, and the clank of spoons on glasses. The master of ceremonies, delighted with the high spirits he was evoking, handed Paul a blue banner to wave. No sooner were Paul's hands on the staff than he saw the ranks of his protectors split wide open. Berringer, his head lowered, his thick legs driving, charged him.
In the scuffle, Paul swung at the informality-maddened Berringer, missed, and was knocked, hors de combat, off the bandstand and halfway through the kitchen doors.
"Please! Please!" the loudspeaker was pleading. "There are very few rules at the Meadows, but the few that there are must be observed! Get back to your seat, now, you in the green shirt. There's to be no rough stuff indoors. Do you understand?"
Laughter was general.

"One more outburst like this one, and you'll be asked to leave the island!"
Kind hands picked up Paul, and he found himself looking into the grave, dull face of Luke Lubbock, the perennial joiner, who wore a busboy's uniform. One of the cooks, who had been watching with disdain, turned away quickly when Paul looked at him, and disappeared into the big meat locker.
As Paul's teammates carried him back to his seat, he realized fleetingly, as a fragment of a nightmare, that the cook had been Alfy, the master of silent television.
"Now, now," said the loudspeaker. "No more rough stuff, or we'll have to call off the rest of the fun. Now, where's the captain of the White Team?"
When the fun was over, Paul and Doctor Harrison of Ithaca walked out together.
"You have ten minutes of free time until the memorial service," said the loudspeaker. "Ten minutes to make new contacts before the memorial service."
"Nice meeting you, sir," said Doctor Harrison.
"I enj -"
"My wild Irish rose," howled the loudspeaker, "the sweetest flow'r that grows -" The refrain ended in a clatter. "Your attention, please. The Program Committee has just informed me that we're running seven minutes behind schedule, so would you please form up at the Oak right away, please. The memorial service will take place right away."
A reverent hush settled like smog over the perspiring crowd that had dispersed over the shuffleboard courts and around the ping-pong tables near the dining hall. Now they began to form about the Oak, the official symbol for the entire national organization. Its image was on every letterhead, and, stitched in a rectangle of white silk, its image snapped in the breeze, just below the American Flag on the

parade-ground mast.
The youngsters imitated the oldsters' uniform stances of piety: eyes fixed on the lower branches of the magnificent old tree, hands folded before their genitals.
"White's going to win!" cried a short, thin youngster with big teeth.
The older men looked at him with sadness, with melancholy rebuke. Now was not the time for such horseplay. Now was almost the only time that was not the time. The youngster's outburst of infinite bad taste would poison his next two weeks, and probably his career. He had in an instant become "the boy who yelled at memorial service." That described him, and nobody would care to investigate him any further. Now, if he turned out to be a spectacular athlete . . . No. His flaccid physique and pale skin indicated that this avenue to forgiveness was closed to him.
Paul looked at him sympathetically, and recalled similar bad starts from the past. The man would be terribly lonely, turn to a career of surly drinking, and never be invited again.
The only sounds now were the rustling of leaves and the fluttering of the flags, and now and then the clatter of dishes and silverware from the dining hall.
A harried-looking photographer ran in front of the group, dropped to one knee, fired a flashbulb, and ran away again.
"Vuuuuzzzzzip!" went a rocket. "Kabloooom!" A parachuted American Flag was flung from the bomb to drift lazily to the river.
Kroner detached himself from the crowd and walked soberly to the thick tree trunk. He turned and looked down at his hands thoughtfully. His first words were so soft, so choked with emotion, that few heard them. He inhaled deeply, threw back his shoulders, raised his eyes, and gathered strength to say them again.
In the brief moment before Kroner spoke again, Paul looked about himself. His

eyes met those of Shepherd and Berringer, and what passed between them was tender and sweet. The crowd had miraculously become a sort of homogenized pudding. It was impossible to tell where one ego left off and the next began.
"It is our custom," said Kroner; "it is the custom here at the Meadows - our custom, our Meadows - to meet here under our tree, our symbol of strong roots, trunk, and branches, our symbol of courage, integrity, perseverance, beauty. It is our custom to meet here to remember our departed friends and co-workers."
And now he forgot the crowd, and talked to the fat cumulus clouds scudding over the blue sky. "Since last we met, Doctor Ernest S. Bassett has left our world for his reward in a better one. Ernie, as you all know, was -"
The photographer ran out, flashed a bulb in Kroner's face, and disappeared again.
"Ernie was manager of the Philadelphia Works for five years, of the Pittsburgh Works for seven. He was my friend; he was our friend: a great American, a great engineer, a great manager, a great pioneer at the head of the procession of civilization, opening new, undreamed-of doors to better things, for better living, for more people, at less cost."
Now and then brokenly, Kroner told of Ernie Bassett as a young engineer, and he traced his career from works to works.
"He gave himself unstintingly engineeringwise, managershipwise, personalitywise, Americanwise, and -" Kroner paused to look impressively from face to face. Again he talked to the clouds - "heartwise."
A man stepped from the crowd to hand Kroner a long white box. Kroner opened it slowly and studied it thoughtfully before showing its contents to anyone else. At last he reached in and unfurled a blue and white pennant, the Armed Forces "E" that Bassett had won during the war as manager of the Philadelphia Works.
A muted bugle played taps.

Kroner knelt at the foot of the tree and placed Ernie Bassett's pennant there.
The photographer dashed up, got the picture, and dashed away.
"Vuuuuzzzzzip! Kablooom!"
A male choir, concealed in the shrubbery, sang ever so softly - to the tune of "Love's Sweet Song":
"Fellows at the Meadows,
Lift your tankards high;
Toast our living symbol, reaching toward the sky. Grown from but an acorn,
Giant now you are;
May you ne'er stop growing;
Rise to the stars!
Proud sy-him-bol a-hov
Ourrrrrrrrs."
"A minute of silence in unspoken prayer for departed friends," said the loudspeaker.
All through the minute of silence, Paul was aware of a snuffling in the

background. Someone's dam of reserve had broken under the impact of the ceremony - someone who must have been awfully close to Bassett. There were tears standing in many eyes, and here and there teeth were sunk in unstable lips, but nowhere could Paul see the sobber. Suddenly he spotted him, not in the crowd, but in the dining hall. Luke Lubbock, a pile of dirty dishes in his arms, had been completely carried away. Big, honest tears for the manager of the Pittsburgh Works flooded his cheeks. Rather roughly, the headwaiter hustled him away from the screen door.
"Vuuuuzzzzzip! Kablooooom!"
The band exploded into "The Stars and Stripes Forever," and Kroner was half led from the tree by other oldsters who had known Bassett well. The crowd dispersed.
Paul looked longingly at the doors of the saloon, which was located in a separate white building. He tested the doors to make sure they were really locked, and of course they were. The saloon never opened until the cocktail hour, after the games.
"Your attention!" said the loudspeaker. "Your attention, please. The program for the rest of the day:
"In ten minutes the teams will meet at their captains' tents for assignments to various sports. Formal competition will not begin until tomorrow morning. After assignment, relax, get to know your buddy, don't hang around with the same old crowd.
"Cocktails at five-thirty. Supper at six-thirty. Now - attention to this change: the keynote play and bonfire will not take place tonight. Will not. They will take place tomorrow night, and there will be a group sing tonight in the amphitheater instead. Taps at midnight.
"Team captains, team captains - will you please report to your tents."

Without much hope, Paul rattled the saloon doors, thinking he might be able to talk a floor sweeper inside into getting him a little something.
"I've just been informed," said the loudspeaker, "I've just been informed that the captain of the Blue Team is not in his tent. Doctor Paul Proteus; Doctor Paul . . ."
CHAPTER TWENTY
The Shah of Bratpuhr's golden turban hung unfurled like a roller towel in heaven from the hat rack in Miami Beach.
"Puka pala koko, puku ebo koko, nibo aki koko," said the Shah.
"What's the foreign gentleman after?" asked Homer Bigley, proprietor of the
barber shop.
"He wants a little off the sides, a little off the back, and leave the top alone," mumbled Khashdrahr Miasma, under a steaming towel in the barber chair next to the Shah's.
Doctor Ewing J. Halyard was giving himself a ragged manicure with his teeth in one of the waiting chairs, while his charges received their first American haircuts. He smiled and nodded at whatever was being said, but heard nothing save the soft crackle of the letter in his breast pocket as he shifted nervously in a search for comfort no chair could give him. The letter, from the personnel officer of the State Department, had pursued him from New York to Utica to Niagara Falls to Camp Drum to Indianapolis to St. Louis to Fort Riley to Houston to Hollywood to the Grand Canyon to Carlsbad Caverns to Hanford to Chicago to Miami Beach, where

he roosted long enough for the letter to catch him - catch him like a javelin, quivering squarely between the shoulder-blades of his spirit. He was lobster-red from a day on the sand, but beneath this stinging veneer of fine health and spirits he was cold and dead-white with fear. "My dear Mr. Halyard," it had begun. "My dear Mr. . . ."
While Halyard brooded, Homer Bigley, with the reflexes born of a life of barbering, selected his scissors, clicked them in air about the sacred head, and, as though his right hand were serviced by the same nerve as his diaphragm and voicebox, he began to cut hair and talk - talked to the uncomprehending Shah after the fashion of an extroverted embalmer chatting with a corpse.
"Yessir, picked a nice time to come. They call this the off-season, but I say it's the nicest time of year. Cheapest time, too. But that isn't what I meant. It's fifteen degrees cooler right here and now than it is in New York City, and I'll bet not one person in fifty up north knows that. Just because the fact hasn't been promoted. Everything's promotion. Ever stop to think about that? Everything you think you think because somebody promoted the ideas. Education - nothing but promotion.
"Good promotion and bad promotion. Barbers, now, they get a lot of bad promotion on account of cartoons and television comedians, you know? Can't pick up a magazine or turn on the television without you see a joke about a barber cutting somebody. And sure, maybe that's good for a little snicker, maybe, and God knows the world can use a few snickers, but I don't think it's right to hurt somebody to give somebody else a snicker. I mean that it all kind of cancels out, and nobody's ahead. And I just wonder if any of those comedians or cartoon people ever stop to think about the thousands of barbers who go from one year to the next without they ever cut a customer, and still these people go around telling everybody that barbers are slashing so many arteries and veins you wonder how the sewers can handle it all. But seems like nobody ever thinks about what's maybe sacred to somebody, any more.
"Matter of fact, of course, used to be barbers did bleed people, of course, and got paid for it, too. One of the oldest professions on earth, if you stop to think

about it, but nobody does. Used to be sort of doctors, bleeding people and setting their bones and all, and then the doctors got sore and took over all that stuff and left the barbers haircutting and shaving. Very interesting history. But my father used to say, before he died, of course, that the barbers would be here long after the last doctor's laid away, and there was a lot in what he said. He was worth listening to.
"Nowadays, by golly, it takes more time and skill to cut hair'n to do what the doctors do. If you had syphilis or the clap or scarlet fever or yellow fever or pneumonia or cancer or something, why, hell, I could cure you while I was drawing the water for a shampoo. Take a little old needle, puncho! squirto! miracle! and give you a clean bill of health along with your change. Any barber could do what a doctor does nowadays. But I'll give you fifty dollars if you can show me a doctor who can cut hair.
"Now, they say barbering isn't a profession, but you take the other professions that got so big for their breeches since the Middle Ages and look down on barbering. You take medicine, you take the law. Machinery!
"Doctor doesn't use his head and education to figure out what's the matter with you. Machines go over you - measure this, measure that. Then he picks out the right miracle stuff, and the only reason he does is on account of the machines tell him that's what to do. And the lawyers! Of course, I say it's a pretty good thing what happened to them, because it was a bad thing for them, which couldn't help to be a good thing for everybody else. I didn't say that. My father said it. Those are his words. But the law's the law now, and not a contest between a lot of men paid to grin and lie and yell and finagle for whatever somebody wanted them to grin and lie and yell and finagle about. By golly, the lie detectors know who's lying and who's telling the truth, and those old card machines know how the law runs on whatever the case is about, and they can find out a helluva sight quicker'n you can say habeas corpus what judges did about cases like that before. And that settles it. No more of this fast footwork. Hell, if I had a lie detector and card machines and all, I could run a law business here and fix you up with a divorce or a million dollar damage suit or whatever you needed whatsoever while you were sticking

your feet and a dime into that shoeshine machine.
"Used to be sort of high and mighty, sort of priests, those doctors and lawyers and all, but they're beginning to look more and more like mechanics. Dentists are holding up pretty good, though. They're the exception that proves the rule, I say. And barbering - one of the oldest professions on earth, incidentally - has held up better than all the rest. Machines separated the men from the boys, you might say.
"The men from the boys - that's what they used to say in the Army, Sergeant Elm Wheeler would. Memphis boy. 'Here we go, boys,' he'd say. 'Here's where we separate the men from the boys.' And off we'd go for the next hill, and the medics'd follow and separate the dead from the wounded. And then Wheeler'd say, 'Here we go, here's where we separate the men from the boys.' And that went on till we got separated from our battalion and Wheeler got his head separated from his shoulders.
"But you know, terrible as that mess was - not just Wheeler, but the whole war - it brought out the greatness in the American people. There's something about war that brings out greatness. I hate to say that, but it's true. Of course, maybe that's because you can get great so quick in a war. Just one damn fool thing for a couple of seconds, and you're great. I could be the greatest barber in the world, and maybe I am, but I'd have to prove it with a lifetime of great haircutting, and then nobody'd notice. That's just the way peacetime things are, you know?
"But Elm Wheeler, you couldn't help but notice him when he went hog-wild after he got a letter from his wife saying she'd had a baby, and he hadn't seen her for two years. Why, he read that and ran up to a machine-gun nest and shot and hand-grenaded everybody in it something awful, then he ran up to another one and mashed up all the people there with his rifle butt, and then, after he'd busted that, he started after a mortar emplacement with a rock in each hand, and they got him with a shell fragment. You could of paid a surgeon a thousand dollars, and he couldn't of done a nicer job. Well, Elm Wheeler got the Congressional Medal for that, and they laid it in his coffin with him. Just laid it there. Couldn't hang it around his neck, and if they'd put it on his chest, I expect they'd of had to use

solder, he was so full of lead and scrap iron.
"But he was great, and nobody'd argue about that, but do you think he could of been great today, in this modern day and age? Wheeler? Elm Wheeler? You know what he would be today? A Reek and Wreck, that's all. The war made him, and this life would of killed him.
"And another nice thing about war - not that anything about war is nice, I guess - is that while it's going on and you're in it, you never worry about doing the right thing. See? Up there, fighting and all, you couldn't be righter. You could of been a heller at home and made a lot of people unhappy and all, and been a dumb, mean bastard, but you're king over there - king to everybody, and especially to yourself. This above all, be true to yourself, and you can't be false to anybody else, and that's it - in a hole, being shot at and shooting back.
"These kids in the Army now, that's just a place to keep 'em off the streets and out of trouble, because there isn't anything else to do with them. And the only chance they'll ever get to be anybody is if there's a war. That's the only chance in the world they got of showing anybody they lived and died, and for something, by God.
"Used to be there was a lot of damn fool things a dumb bastard could do to be great, but the machines fixed that. You know, used to be you could go to sea on a big clipper ship or a fishing ship and be a big hero in a storm. Or maybe you could be a pioneer and go out west and lead the people and make trails and chase away Indians and all that. Or you could be a cowboy, or all kinds of dangerous things, and still be a dumb bastard.
"Now the machines take all the dangerous jobs, and the dumb bastards just get tucked away in big bunches of prefabs that look like the end of a game of Monopoly, or in barracks, and there's nothing for them to do but set there and kind of hope for a big fire where maybe they can run into a burning building in front of everybody and run out with a baby in their arms. Or maybe hope - though they don't say so out loud because the last one was so terrible - for another war. Course,

there isn't going to be another one.
"And, oh, I guess machines have made things a lot better. I'd be a fool to say they haven't, though there's plenty who say they haven't, and I can see what they mean, all right. It does seem like the machines took all the good jobs, where a man could be true to hisself and false to nobody else, and left all the silly ones. And I guess I'm just about the end of a race, standing here on my own two feet.
"And I'm lucky barbering held out as long as it did - long enough to take care of me. And I'm glad I don't have any kids. That way it comes out even, and I don't have to think about this shop not being here for them, about nothing being for them but the Army or the Reeks and Wrecks, probably - unless an engineer or manager or research man or bureaucrat got at my wife, and the kids had their brains instead of mine. But Clara'd let one of those jerks at her just about as quick as you could stuff a pound of oleomargarine up a cat's ass with a hot awl.
"Anyway, I hope they keep those barber machines out of Miami Beach for another two years, and then I'll be ready to retire and the hell with them. They had the man who invented the damn things on television the other night, and turns out he's a barber hisself. Said he kept worrying and worrying about somebody was going to invent a haircutting machine that'd put him out of business. And he'd have nightmares about it, and when he'd wake up from them, he'd tell hisself all the reasons why they couldn't ever make a machine that'd do the job - you know, all the complicated motions a barber goes through. And then, in his next nightmare, he'd dream of a machine that did one of the jobs, like combing, and he'd see how it worked clear as a bell. And it was just a vicious circle. He'd dream. Then he'd tell hisself something the machine couldn't do. Then he'd dream of a machine, and he'd see just how a machine could do what he'd said it couldn't do. And on and on, until he'd dreamed up a whole machine that cut hair like nobody's business. And he sold his plans for a hundred thousand bucks and royalties, and I don't guess he has to worry about anything any more.
"Ever stop to think what a funny thing the human mind is? And there you are, sir, how's that look to you?"

"Sumklish," said the Shah, and he took a long drink from the flask Khashdrahr handed him. He studied himself soberly in the mirror Bigley held up for him. "Nibo bakula ni provo," he said at last.
"He likes it?" asked Bigley.
"He says it's nothing a turban won't cover," said Khashdrahr, whose haircut was also over. He called to Halyard. "Your turn, Doctor."
"Hmmm?" said Halyard absently, looking up from the letter. "Oh - no haircut for me. Think we ought to go back to the hotel for a rest, eh?" He glanced at the letter once more:
My dear Mr. Halyard:
We have just completed an audit of the personnel cards for our Department, checking the information coded on them against the facts.
During this audit, it was discovered that you failed to meet the physical- education requirements for a bachelor's degree from Cornell University, and that the degree was awarded you through a clerical oversight of this deficiency. I regret to inform you that you are, therefore, technically without a bachelor's degree, and, hence, technically ineligible for the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees which also appear on your record.
Since there are, as you know, severe penalties for willfully coding false information on personnel cards, we are obliged to advise you that you are officially without a college degree of any sort, and that you are transferred from staff to probationary status for a period of eight weeks, in which time you will return to Cornell and make up this deficiency.
Perhaps you can work this small chore into your itinerary, and give the Shah an opportunity to see a representative American institution of higher learning.
I have been in touch with Cornell about this mix-up, and they assure me that

they will arrange for you to take the physical-education tests whenever you like. You will not have to take the course, but only the final examinations. These tests, I understand, are quite simple: swim six lengths of the swimming pool, do twenty pushups, fifteen chinnings, climb a rope, stand on your . . .
CHAPTER TWENTY ONE
The moon was full over the Thousand Islands, and, on one of them at least, there were a thousand eyes to see it. The cream of the East and Middle West, engineeringwise and managerwise, was met in the amphitheater of the Meadows. It was the second night, the night of the keynote play and the bonfire. The stage in the center of the circling stone seats was hidden beneath a pair of steel quarter- spheres, which would presently open like the shells of a steamed quahog.
Kroner sat down next to Paul and laid his hand on Paul's knee. "Nice night, boy."
"Yessir."
"Think we've got a good team this year, Paul."
"Yessir. They look good." After one day of competition, the Blue Team did look good, good despite the large proportion of top - hence tired and old - executives in its ranks. That afternoon the Blues had knocked the captain of the Greens, Shepherd, out of the box after three innings. Shepherd, in his determination to win and his horror of losing, had blown up completely.
Paul, by contrast, had played heads-up ball all the way, effortlessly, laughingly,

wholly out of character. In analyzing the magical quality of the afternoon during the cocktail hour, Paul realized what had happened: for the first time since he'd made up his mind to quit, he really hadn't given a damn about the system, about the Meadows, about intramural politics. He'd tried not to give a damn before, but he hadn't had much luck. Now, suddenly, as of the afternoon, he was his own man.
Paul was half tight, and pleased with himself. Everything was going to be just fine.
"The Old Man wants to start the meeting shortly after his plane lands," said Kroner, "so we'll have to leave whatever's going on."
"O.K.," said Paul. "Swell." Swell night, tangy air, and a drowsy sort of harmlessness over everything. Maybe he'd give notice tonight, if he felt like it. No hurry. "Fine."
"Everybody in their seats, please," said the loudspeaker. "Will everybody take their seats. The Program Committee has just informed me that we are eight minutes behind time, so will everybody take their seats."
Everybody did. The band, wearing summer tuxedos, struck up a medley of Meadows favorites. The music faded. The quarter-spheres opened a trifle at the top, freeing a beam of light that shot through cigarette smoke to the deep-blue heavens. The music stopped, machinery underground grumbled, and the quarter- spheres sank into the earth, revealing:
An old man, with a white beard reaching to his waist, wearing a long white robe and golden sandals and a blue conical hat speckled with golden stars, sits atop an extraordinarily tall stepladder. He looks wise, just, and tired by responsibility. In one hand he holds a large dust cloth. Beside the ladder, and of the same height, is a slender pole. Another just like it stands across the stage. Between the two poles is a loop of wire, passing, like a clothesline, over pulleys fixed to the poles. Hanging from the wire are a series of metallic stars about two feet across. They are coated with fluorescent paint, so that a beam of invisible infrared light, playing

on one star, then another, makes them come alive with dazzling color.
The old man, oblivious to the audience, contemplates the stars strung out before him, unhooks the star nearest to him, studies its surface, polishes a tarnished spot on it, shakes his head sadly, and lets the star fall. He looks down at the fallen star with regret, then at those still on the wire, then at the audience. He speaks.
OLD MAN. I am the Sky Manager. It is I who keep night skies shining brightly; I who, when a star's glory is tarnished beyond restoration, must take it from the firmament. Every hundred years I climb my ladder to keep the heavens bright. And now my time has come again.
(He pulls on the wire, bringing another star within reach. He removes the star and examines it.)
And this is a strange star to be shining in the modern heavens. And yet, a hundred years ago, when I last kept my vigil, it was proud and new, and only a few meteors, destroying themselves in a brilliant instant, shone more brightly than this. (He holds up the star, and the infrared light makes it glow brightly, bringing out the lettering which says, "Labor Unionism." He dusts it desultorily, shrugs, and lets it drop.) In brave company. (Looks down at scrap heap.) With stars named Rugged Individualism, Socialism, Free Enterprise, Communism, Fascism, and - (Leaves sentence unfinished, and sighs.)
It is not an easy job, not always a pleasant one. But One far wiser than I, infinitely good, has decreed that it must be done (sighs), and be done dispassionately.
(He pulls on wire, and brings in another star, the biggest of all. The infrared light hits it, and it lights up brilliantly, and on it is the

image of the Oak, the symbol of the organization.)
Alas, a young beauty. But already there are those who hate the sight of it, who clamor for it to be torn from the heavens. (He dabs at it with his dust cloth, shrugs, and holds the star at arm's length, preparatory to dropping it.) Enter a clean-cut, handsome young engineer from audience.
YOUNG ENG. (Shakes foot of ladder.) No! No, Sky Manager, no!
OLD MAN. (Looks down curiously.) What is this? A mere stripling challenges the caretaker of the heavens? Enter unkempt young radical through trap door in stage.
RADICAL. (Sneeringly) Take it down.
YOUNG ENG. There's never been a more brilliant, beautiful star! RADICAL. There's never been a bloodier, blacker one!
OLD MAN. (Looks perplexedly from the two men to the star and back.) Hmmmm. Are you prepared to appeal the fate of this star with reason rather than emotion? My duties require that I be the sworn enemy of emotion.

YOUNG ENG. I am!
RADICAL. I, too. (Smiles.) And I promise to take very little of your time.
CLOSE QUARTER-SPHERES.
OPEN QUARTER-SPHERES.
A tall judge's rostrum now surrounds the old man's ladder. The old man wears a judge's wig and robes. The radical and the young engineer are similarly robed and wigged after the fashion of English barristers.
OFFSTAGE
VOICE.
Oyez, oyez, oyez! The Court of Celestial Relations is now in session!
OLD MAN. (Bangs with gavel.) Order in the court. The prosecution will proceed.

RADICAL. (Offensively ingratiating.) Your honor, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, the prosecution will show that the star in question is as tarnished - nay, black! - as any ever hung in the heavens. I will call but one witness, but that witness in effect is a million witnesses, each of whom could tell the same sordid tale, tell the unvarnished truth in the same simple words from the heart. I'd like to call John Averageman to the stand.
OFFSTAGE
VOICE. John Averageman, John Averageman. Take the stand,
please. Enter John Averageman through trap door in stage floor.
(He is slightly pudgy, shy, middle-aged, endearing. His clothes are cheap, verging on being comical. He is in awe of the court, and has perhaps had a couple of drinks to bolster his nerve.)
RADICAL. (Touches John's arm.) I'm looking out for you, John. Take your time about answering. Don't let them rattle you. Let me do the thinking, and you'll be all right.
OFFSTAGE
VOICE. Do you solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth,

and nothing but the truth, so help you God? JOHN. (Looks questioningly at radical.) Do I?
RADICAL.
You do.
RADICAL. John, suppose you tell the court what you did before the war, before this new star arose to spoil, to besmirch the heavens.
JOHN. I was a machinist in the Averagetown Works of the Averagetown Manufacturing Company.
And now?
JOHN. I'm in the Reconstruction and Reclamation Corps, sir. Shovelman First Class.
RADICAL. Suppose, for the edification of the court, you tell us what you made before the star arose, and what you make now.
RADICAL.

JOHN. (Stares upward, remembering and computing with difficulty.) Well, sir, when the defense work and all got going before the war, seems to me I could make better'n a hundred a week with overtime. Best week I ever had, I guess, was about a hundred and forty-five dollars. Now I get thirty a week.
RADICAL. Uh-huh. In other words, as that star went up, your income dropped. To be exact, John, your income dropped about eighty per cent.
YOUNG ENG. (Jumps to feet impulsively, likably.) Your honor, I - OLD MAN. Wait until the cross-examination.
YOUNG ENG. Yessir. Sorry, sir.
RADICAL. I think we've made it amply clear that the American standard of living has tumbled eighty per cent. (His features assume an annoyingly pious expression.) But enough of merely materialistic considerations. What has the ascent of this star meant to John Averageman in terms of his spirit? John, tell the court what you told me. Remember? About the engineers and managers -
JOHN. Yessir. (Looks hesitantly at young engineer.) No offense, sir -

RADICAL. (Prodding.) The truth can never be spoken without someone getting hurt, John. Go right ahead.
JOHN. Well, sir, it hurts a man a lot to be forgotten. You know - to have the fellers in charge, the engineers and managers, just sort of look right through him like they don't see him. A guy likes to know somebody thinks enough of him to look out for him.
YOUNG ENG. (Urgently) Your honor!
RADICAL.
OLD MAN. (Severely) I will not tolerate any further interruptions from you. The issues are far graver than I thought. (To radical) Please proceed.
Go ahead, John.
JOHN. Well, sir, that's just about it. Kind of summing up, seems like these days the engineers and managers and the like are everything, and the average man is just nothing any more.
RADICAL. (Pretends to be overcome by the tragedy of John's testimony. After seemingly searching for words and struggling with

emotion for thirty seconds, he at last speaks, choked up and angry.)
Star of wonder, star of might; star of wondrous beauty bright. Take it down. (Shakes fist.) Take it down! (Gestures at John.) We've heard the voice of the people - the people, yes. "Take it down!" they say.
Who is it that says, "Leave it up?" Who? Not John, not the people. Who? (Dramatically, he produces a pamphlet from his breast pocket.) Your honor, ladies and gentlemen of the jury (reads from pamphlet), at the start of the war, the average income for engineers and managers in this great land of ours was $8,449.27. Now, on this poisoned night, as the black star reaches its zenith, eighty per cent of John Averageman's pay check has been wrenched from him. And what is the average pay check for engineers and managers, you ask? (Reads from the pamphlet again, with bitter emphasis on every syllable.) Fifty-seven thousand eight hundred and ninety-six dollars and forty-one cents!
(Explosively.) Your witness!
(Radical slinks over to the far post and leans against it to watch
contemptuously.) YOUNG ENG. (Softly, kindly) John.
JOHN. (Suspiciously, hostilely) Yessir?
YOUNG ENG. John, tell me - when you had this large income, before the star arose, did you by any chance have a twenty-eight-

inch television set? JOHN. (Puzzled) No, sir.
YOUNG ENG. Or a laundry console or a radar stove or an electronic dust precipitator?
JOHN. No, sir, I didn't. Them things were for the rich folks.
YOUNG ENG. And tell me, John, when you had all that money, did you have a social insurance package that paid all of your medical bills, all of your dentist bills, and provided for food, housing, clothes, and pocket money in your old age?
JOHN. No, sir. There wasn't no such thing then, in those days. YOUNG ENG. But you have them now, now that the
(sarcastically) black star has risen, haven't you? JOHN. Yessir, that's right, I do. But -

YOUNG ENG. John, you've heard of Julius Caesar? Good, you have. John, do you suppose that Caesar, with all his power and wealth, with the world at his feet, do you suppose he had what you, Mr. Averageman, have today?
JOHN. (Surprised) Come to think of it, he didn't. Huh! What do you know?
RADICAL.
(Furiously) I object! What has Caesar got to do with it?
YOUNG ENG. Your honor, the point I was trying to make was that John, here, since the star in question has risen, has become far richer than the wildest dreams of Caesar or Napoleon or Henry VIII! Or any emperor in history! Thirty dollars, John - yes, that is how much money you make. But, not with all his gold and armies could Charlemagne have gotten one single electric lamp or vacuum tube! He would have given anything to get the security and health package you have, John. But could he get it? No!
JOHN. Well, for heaven's sakes! But -
YOUNG ENG. (Anticipates John's objection.) But the engineers and managers have forgotten Mr. Averageman?
JOHN. Yessir, that's what I was going to say.

YOUNG ENG. John, do you know that no manager or engineer would have a job if it weren't for you? How could we forget you for even a minute, when every minute of our lives is spent trying to give you what you want! Do you know who my boss is, John?
JOHN. Don't believe I ever met the gentleman.
YOUNG ENG. (Smiling) Oh, I think maybe you have. He's you, John! If I can't give you what you want, I'm through. We're all through, and down comes the star.
JOHN. (Blushing) Gosh, I never looked at it quite that way before, sir. (Laughs modestly.) But I guess that's right, isn't it? What do you know about that? But -
YOUNG ENG. But I make too much money? Fifty-seven thousand dollars? Is that what worries you?
JOHN. Yessir, that's a lot of money.
YOUNG ENG. John, before the star arose, the payroll for producing what I produce for you, for my boss, Mr. Averageman,

ran to more than fifty-seven thousand dollars a week. Not a year, mind you, but a week! It looks to me, John, like you, the consumer, are the big winner, not me.
JOHN. (Whistles low, under his breath.) Is that a fact! (Points suddenly at radical, who is very restive.) But, he said -
YOUNG ENG. We've answered everything he's said, John. And I'd like to add one little thought. He'd like to take advantage of your good nature. He wants power, and he doesn't care about anything else. He'd like to make you swallow his half-truths, John, and get you to help him pull down the star, and put himself in power, and the whole world back in the Dark Ages!
JOHN. (Glowering.) Oh, he would, would he?
(Radical looks worried, then frightened and chagrined, and suddenly makes dash for trap door in stage. John is right after him, and trap door closes. Stage lights fade, and blue feature spot comes up on young engineer, who moves directly to center of stage. Band starts "Battle Hymn of the Republic" softly, almost imperceptibly.)
YOUNG ENG. (Reflectively, soberly, conversationally) Yes, there are those who've clamored so loudly against our star that some have been convinced it is tarnished. And if that star were to come down, it would be partly our fault. Yes, ours! Every minute of the day we should be pointing out how beautiful it is, and why it is beautiful. We hold our peace too much.

(Points at star. Infrared beam hits it, making it glow beautifully.)
Under it, we've become rich beyond the wildest dreams of the past! Civilization has reached the dizziest heights of all time!
(Music swells a little in volume.)
Thirty-one point seven times as many television sets as all the rest of the world put together!
(Music gets louder still.)
Ninety-three per cent of all the world's electrostatic dust precipitators! Seventy-seven per cent of all the world's automobiles! Ninety-eight per cent of its helicopters! Eighty-one point nine per cent of its refrigerators!
(Music gets louder still.)
Seventy-one point three per cent of the world's generating capacity! Eighty-five per cent of its industrial control vacuum tubes! Sixty-nine per cent of its fractional horsepower motors! Ninety-eight point three per cent of . . .
(Music crescendos, drowning him out.)
Fade feature spot. Launch rockets from shore.)
CLOSE QUARTER-SPHERES.

OPEN QUARTER-SPHERES.
The young engineer is gone, and so are the trappings of the court. The old man is at the top of his ladder, alone with his stars, as he was at the beginning.
He holds out the star bearing the image of the Oak, smiles, hooks it onto the wire, and sends it out, where it glows in infrared.
OLD MAN. Yes, out it goes again, brighter than all the rest. (He reaches under his robe, and comes out with a powerful flashlight, whose beam he aims directly upward.) And when I come back to examine the stars for stains in another century, will it gleam as it does now? Or? (Looks meaningfully at the foot of the ladder.) Well, what determines whether it will be tarnished or not? (Looks at the audience.) It depends on - (Suddenly brings down the flashlight, so its beam strikes face after face after face in the audience.) You! And You! And You! etc.
(Fire rockets. Hit "Stars and Stripes Forever" hard.)
CLOSE QUARTER-SPHERES. (Turn on amphitheater floodlights.)
Kroner's hand crashed down on Paul's knee. "Phwew! The best keynoter yet! Paul - the story, the whole story in a nutshell!"

"You'll be interested in knowing - " said the loudspeaker over the applause. "Here's an announcement of interest: In the past, the keynote plays have been written by professional writers under our supervision. This play you've just seen was written, believe it or not, by an engineer and manager within the organization! Bill Holdermann, stand up! Stand up! Stand up, Bill!"
The audience went wild.
"I knew it!" shouted Kroner. "It was real! It went right to the heart. It had to be somebody inside!"
Holdermann, a shaggy, worn-out nobody from the Indianapolis Works, stood a few rows ahead of Paul, red, smiling, and with tears in his eyes. At the sunset of life, he had arrived. Perhaps a muffled wisp of the applause reached the ears of his wife, the woman who had had faith in him when no one else had, across the water, on the Mainland.
"Bonfire in five minutes," said the loudspeaker. "Five minutes to make new contacts, then the bonfire."
Shepherd struggled through the crowd and took Kroner's attention away from Paul. " 'Not with all his gold and armies,' " Shepherd quoted from the play. " 'Not with all his gold and armies could Charlemagne have gotten one single electric lamp or vacuum tube!' " He shook his head wonderingly, admiringly. "Don't tell me art is dying."
"Art who?" said Paul under his breath, and he walked away from them, into the twilight at the fringe of the ring of floodlights. The rest of the crowd drifted, tightly packed, toward the shore, where Luke Lubbock, Alfy, and others of the service staff were pouring kerosene on a hillock of pine fagots.
The play was virtually the same play that had begun every Meadows session, even before the war, when the island had belonged to a steel company. Twenty years ago, Paul's father had brought him up here, and the play's message had been the same: that the common man wasn't nearly as grateful as he should be for what

the engineers and managers had given him, and that the radicals were the cause of the ingratitude.
When Paul had first seen the allegory, as a teen-ager, he'd been moved deeply. He had been struck full force by its sublime clarity and simplicity. It was a story in a nutshell, and the heroic struggle against ingratitude was made so vivid for his young mind that he'd worshipped his father for a little while as a fighter, a latter- day Richard the Lionhearted.
"Well," his father had said after that first play, years ago, "what are you thinking, Paul?"
"I had no idea - no idea that's what was going on."
"That's the story," his father had said sadly. "The whole story. That's the way it is."
"Yessir." Their eyes had met, and an inexpressibly sweet sense of eternal tragedy had passed between them, between their generations - a legacy of Weltschmerz as old as humanity.
Now, Paul stood by himself on a dark walk, bewildered by the picture of, as Kroner put it, the men at the head of the procession of civilization, the openers of doors to undreamed-of new worlds. This silly playlet seemed to satisfy them completely as a picture of what they were doing, why they were doing it, and who was against them, and why some people were against them. It was a beautifully simple picture these procession leaders had. It was as though a navigator, in order to free his mind of worries, had erased all the reefs from his maps.
Suddenly, light flashed in Paul's eyes, but less dazzling light than the Sky Manager's. He faced his own image in a mirror framed by fluorescent lamps. Over the mirror was the legend, THE BEST MAN IN THE WORLD FOR THE BEST JOB IN THE WORLD. The island was covered with such booby traps. The lamps about this mirror were old ones, and they gave off a wavering light tinged with greens and purples. They gave his skin the quality of corroded copper, and his lips

and eye rims were lavender. He discovered that there was nothing disquieting about seeing himself dead. An awakening conscience, unaccompanied by new wisdom, made his life so damned lonely, he decided he wouldn't much mind being dead. And the good offices of the cocktail hour were wearing away.
A drone in the sky to the east distracted him - probably the amphibian bearing the priceless two hundred and fifty pounds of Doctor Francis Eldgrin Gelhorne, and his know-how.
Paul took a step down the path, which turned off the lights, and headed back toward the bonfire, which was sending sparks and flames up hundreds of feet and turning the faces about it to a sweaty pink.
A professional actor, painted bronze, wearing an eagle-feather war bonnet and a beaded G-string, held up his hand and tilted his head back proudly. The crowd fell silent. "How!" He looked earnestly from face to face. "How! Many moons ago, my people made their home on this island."
The amphibian was circling the island now, coming lower.
"It's the Old Man all right," whispered Kroner to Paul. "Wouldn't look good to walk out on the ceremony, though. We'll have to stick it out."
"My people were brave people," said the Indian. "My people were proud and honest people. My people worked hard, played hard, fought hard, until it was time to go to the Happy Hunting Ground."
The same actor had been hired to play the Indian for years, ever since Paul had been coming to the Meadows. He'd been hired originally for his deep voice and beautiful muscles. Now, Paul noticed, his belly cast a shadow over his G-string, his left calf had developed a varicose vein, and war paint failed to hide the gray bags under his eyes. He had become such a regular at the Meadows, such a vital symbol - surpassed in that function only by Doctor Gelhorne and the Oak - that he was a man apart from the other hired help, on a first-name footing with the brass, and with the drinking privileges of a regular guest.

"Now our braves are gone, our strong young men - gone from this island, which belonged to my people, lo, these many moons ago," said the Indian. "Now other young men come. But the spirit of my people lives on, the Spirit of the Meadows. It is everywhere: in the wind through the pines, in the lapping of the great blue water, in the whir of an eagle wing, in the growl of summer thunder. No man can call this island his, no man can be happy here, who does not harken to the Spirit, who does not take the Oath of the Spirit."
There was the clattering of the switch in the loudspeaker again. "Young braves at the Meadows for the first step forward," said a pontifical voice, not that of the usual drover.
"Raise your right hands," said the Indian. "Repeat after me the Oath of the Spirit of the Meadows. I solemnly swear by the voice in the pines -"
"By the voice in the pines," said the neophytes.
"By the lapping of the great blue water, by the whir of the eagle wing -"
The Old Man's plane had skated across the water to the shore on the other side of the island and was roaring its engines as it inched up a ramp onto land.
"By the growl of the summer thunder," said the Indian.
"By the growl of the summer thunder."
"I will uphold the Spirit of the Meadows," said the Indian. "I will obey the wise commands of my chiefs, for the good of the people. I will work and fight fearlessly, tirelessly for a better world. I will never say the job is done. I will uphold the honor of my profession and what I represent at all times. I will seek out enemies of the people, enemies of a better world for all children, relentlessly."
"Relentlessly!" said someone in the crowd near Paul, passionately. He turned to see that Luke Lubbock, again swept into the mainstream of pomp and

circumstance, held his hand high and swore to everything that came along. In Luke's left hand was a fire extinguisher, apparently for use in case the blaze spread.
When the oath was done, the Indian looked and saw it was good. "The Spirit of the Meadows is pleased," he said. "The Meadows belong to these stout-hearted braves, and it shall be a proud, happy place as it was, lo, these many moons ago."
A smoke bomb concealed before him screened him for a startling instant, and he was gone.
"The saloon is open," said the loudspeaker. "The saloon is open, and will be open until midnight."
Paul found himself walking beside the pleasant youngster he'd met at lunch, Doctor Edmund Harrison of the Ithaca Works. Shepherd and Berringer were right behind, flattering the life out of Kroner.
"Well, how'd you like it, Ed?" said Paul.
Harrison looked at him searchingly, started to smile, and seemed to think it inadvisable. "Very well done," he said carefully. "Very professional."
"Jesus Christ," Berringer was saying, "I mean, Christ, boy, that was a show. You know, it's entertainment, and still you learn something, too. Christ! When you do both, that's art, boy. Christ, and that wasn't cheap to put on, either, I'll bet."
Ed Harrison of Ithaca stopped and picked up a bit of stone from the side of the path. "I'll be damned," he said. "An arrowhead!"
"A nice one, too," said Paul, admiring the relic.
"So there really were Indians on this island," said Harrison.
"For chrissakes, you crazy bastard," said Berringer. "You deaf, dumb, and

blind? Whaddya think they been trying to tell you for the past half-hour?" CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
The meeting of Doctors Paul Proteus, Anthony Kroner, Lou MacCleary, Executive Manager of National Industrial Security, and Francis Eldgrin Gelhorne, National Industrial, Commercial, Communications, Foodstuffs, and Resources Director, was to take place at the Meadows in the so-called Council House. The Council House was a frame building, away from the rest, that had been built in the old, wilder days as a lazaretto for surly drunks. Drinking at the Meadows had become more careful since the war - more mature, Kroner said - so the pesthouse fell into disuse and was finally converted into a meeting place for top-policy brass.
All save Doctor Gelhorne were now seated around a long meeting table, looking thoughtfully at the empty chair Gelhorne would be filling any minute. It was a time for silence. The mixing, the making of new contacts, the packing up of troubles in old kit bags went on noisily across the island, in the saloon. Here in the Council House there was no joy, only the summer-cottage aroma of mildew and incipient dry rot, and a grave awareness on the part of each of the three men that the world was their apple.
The shouts and songs that floated over the greensward from the saloon, Paul noted, had a piping quality. There wasn't the inimitable hoarseness of an honest-to- God drunk in the lot. It was unthinkable that there was a man in the saloon without a glass in his hand, but it was also unlikely that many men would have their glasses filled more than twice. They didn't drink at the Meadows now the way
they used to in the old days when Finnerty and Shepherd and Paul had joined the

organization. It used to be that they'd come up to the Meadows to relax and really tie one on as a relief from the terribly hard work of war production. Now the point seemed to be to pretend drunkenness, but to stay sober and discard only those inhibitions and motor skills one could safely do without.
Paul supposed there would be a couple of men who wouldn't realize what was going on, who would earnestly try to get as drunk as everyone else seemed. They would be frightfully alone and lost when the party broke up. And there would be one or two lonely drunks with nothing to lose anyway, men who had fallen into disfavor one way or another, who knew they had received their last invitation. And what the hell, the liquor was free. De mortuis nil nisi bonum.
There was a voice on the porch of the Council House. Doctor Gelhorne was on the other side of the door, pausing a moment for some last word with the world outside. "Look at those youngsters over there," Paul heard the Old Man say, "and tell me God isn't in his heaven."
As the doorknob turned, Paul continued to contemplate trivia, to atomize the fixtures and conventions of the only way of life he'd ever known, an easy, comfortable life, with simple answers for every doubt. That he was quitting that life, that now was perhaps the time he would do it - the grand idea over-shadowing all the little ones - rarely occupied his consciousness. It showed itself mainly in a sensation of being disembodied, or now and then of standing in a chilling wind. Maybe the right time to quit would come now, or a few months from now. There was no need to hurry, no need at all.
The door opened.
The three waiting men stood.
In came Doctor Francis Eldgrin Gelhorne, National Industrial, Commercial, Communications, Foodstuffs, and Resources Director. His spherical bulk was enclosed in a double-breasted, dark-blue suit. His single concession to the Meadows' tradition of informality was an unbuttoned collar and the sliding of his necktie knot a fraction of an inch below where it should have been. Though he

was seventy, his hair was as thick and black as a twenty-year-old Mexican's. His fatness was turned into something impressive rather than comical by his perpetual I-smell-excrement expression.
He seemed to be the end of a race, as, Paul reflected, so many leaders seemed to be. It was hard to believe that when Gelhorne was gone there would ever be another man as wonderfully old, shrewd, and unafraid as he.
He cleared his throat. "We're here because somebody wants to kill us, wreck the plants, and take over the country. That plain enough for you?"
Everyone nodded.
"The Ghost Shirt Society," said Doctor Lou MacCleary, Executive Manager of National Industrial Security.
"The Ghost Shirt Society," said Director Gelhorne acidly. "Give a name to something, and you think you've got it. But you haven't got it. All you've got's the name. That's why we're here. All we've got is the name."
"Yessir," said Lou. "The Ghost Shirt Society. And we think the headquarters is in Ilium."
"We think," said Doctor Gelhorne. "We don't know anything."
"Yessir," said Lou.
Gelhorne fidgeted for a moment and looked about the room. His eyes fell on Paul. "How are you, Doctor Proteus?"
"Fine, thank you, sir."
"Uh-huh. Good. That's good." He turned to Lou MacCleary. "Let's see that report of yours that tells everything we don't know about the Ghost Shirt Society."

MacCleary gave him a thick typewritten manuscript.
Gelhorne, his lips moving, leafed through it, frowning. No one spoke or smiled or looked at anyone else.
Paul considered the notion of Doctor Gelhorne's being the last of a race, and decided it was true. He had got to the top through a disorderly route that the personnel machines would never tolerate. Had machines been watching things when Gelhorne started his climb to the top, his classification card would have come flying out of the card files like an old Wheaties box top.
He had no college degree of any kind, other than bouquets of honorary doctorates that had come to him in his late fifties and sixties.
He'd had nothing to do with industry, in fact, until he was thirty. Before that, he'd pulled a mail-order taxidermy business out of bankruptcy, sold his interest in it, and bought a trailer truck. He'd built his fleet to five trucks when he received a hot market tip, sold his business, invested the proceeds, and tripled his wealth. With this bonanza, he'd bought the largest, yet failing, ice-cream plant in Indianapolis, and put the business in the black inside of a year by building ice- cream routes servicing Indianapolis manufacturing plants during the lunch hour. In another year, he had his trucks carrying sandwiches and coffee along with ice cream. In another year, he was running plant cafeterias all over town, and the ice- cream business had become a minor division of Gelhorne Enterprises.
He'd found that many of the manufacturing firms were owned by third- or fourth-generation heirs who, by some seeming law of decay, didn't have the nerve or interest the plants' founders had had. Gelhorne, half playfully at first, had offered these heirs advice, and found them amazingly eager to surrender responsibility. He'd bought in, watched and learned, and, discovering nerve was as valuable as special knowledge, he'd become manager and part owner of a dozen small plants.
When war became certain and the largest corporations were looking about for new manufacturing facilities, Gelhorne had delivered his prosperous community

of plants to General Steel, and become an officer of that corporation. The rule-of- thumb familiarity he had with many different industries, as represented by the plants he'd taken over, had been broader than that of any executives General Steel had developed within its own organization, and Gelhorne was soon spending all his time at the side of the corporation's war-rattled president.
There he'd come to the attention of Paul's father in Washington, and Paul's father had made Gelhorne his general executive manager when the whole economy had been made one flesh. When Paul's father died, Gelhorne had taken over.
It could never happen again. The machines would never stand for it.
Paul remembered a week end long ago, when he had been a tall, skinny, polite, and easily embarrassed youth, and Gelhorne had paid a call. Gelhorne had suddenly reached out and caught Paul by the arm as Paul passed his chair. "Paul, boy."
"Yessir?"
"Paul, your father tells me you're real smart."
Paul had nodded uncomfortably.
"That's good, Paul, but that isn't enough."
"No, sir."
"Don't be bluffed."
"No, sir, I won't."
"Everybody's shaking in his boots, so don't be bluffed." "No, sir."

"Nobody's so damn well educated that you can't learn ninety per cent of what he knows in six weeks. The other ten per cent is decoration."
"Yes, sir."
"Show me a specialist, and I'll show you a man who's so scared he's dug a hole for himself to hide in."
"Yes, sir."
"Almost nobody's competent, Paul. It's enough to make you cry to see how bad most people are at their jobs. If you can do a half-assed job of anything, you're a one-eyed man in the kingdom of the blind."
"Yes, sir."
"Want to be rich, Paul?"
"Yes, sir - I guess so. Yes, sir."
"All right. I got rich, and I told you ninety per cent of what I know about it. The rest is decoration. All right?"
"Yes, sir."
Now, after many years, Paul and Doctor Francis Eldgrin Gelhorne were looking at each other over the long table in the Council House at the Meadows. They weren't close friends, and there was none of Kroner's aromatic paternalism about Gelhorne. This was business.
"There's nothing new about the Society in this report," said Gelhorne. "Only the part about Finnerty," said Lou MacCleary. "It's been slow going." "It certainly has," said Doctor Gelhorne. "Well, Doctor Proteus and Doctor

Kroner, the point is that this Ghost Shirt nonsense might turn out to be something pretty big. And Lou, here, hasn't been able to get an agent into it to find out what they're up to or who's running it."
"This bunch is smart," said Lou. "They're being pretty selective about who gets in."
"But we think we know how to get a man into it," said Gelhorne. "We think they'd be very tempted by a discontented manager and engineer. We think they've already recruited at least one."
"Finnerty," said Kroner heavily. "He finally registered with the police, incidentally."
"Oh?" said MacCleary. "What did he say he was doing with his time?"
"Says he's getting out Braille editions of pornography."
"He's being pretty cute now," said Gelhorne, "but I think we'll fix his wagon all right. But that's a side issue. The point we're getting at, Paul, is that I think they'll take you into the Ghost Shirt Society under the right conditions."
"Conditions, sir?"
"If we fire you. As of now, as far as anyone outside this room knows, you're through. The rumor's already circulating at the saloon, isn't it, Lou?"
"Yes, sir. I let it slip in front of Shepherd at dinner."
"Good boy," said Gelhorne. "He'll be taking over Ilium, by the way."
"Sir, about Pittsburgh -" said Kroner worriedly. "I promised Paul that he was slated for that job when he was finished with the investigation."
"That's right. In the meanwhile, Garth will run the works there." Gelhorne stood

briskly. "All right, Paul? Everything clear? You're to get off the island tonight and back to Ilium." He smiled. "It's really a break for you, Paul. It gives you a chance to clear up your record."
"Record, sir?" Things were happening so quickly now that Paul could only seize upon a word and repeat it as a question in order to keep in the conversation.
"That business of letting Finnerty go through the plant unescorted, and the pistol affair."
"The pistol affair," said Paul. "Can I tell my wife?"
"I'm afraid not," said Lou. "The plan is that nobody outside this room is to know."
"It'll be hard, I know," said Gelhorne sympathetically. "But just now I'm remembering a young boy who told me he didn't want to be an engineer when he grew up, he wanted to be a soldier. You know who that boy was, Paul?"
"Me?" said Paul bleakly.
"You. Well, now you're in the front lines, and we're proud of you." "Your father would be proud of you, Paul," said Kroner.
"I guess he would. He really would be, wouldn't he," said Paul. Gratefully he was welcoming the blind, invigorating heat of anger. "Sir, Doctor Gelhorne, may I say one more thing before you leave?"
Kroner was holding the door open for the Old Man. "All right, by all means."
"I quit."
Gelhorne, Kroner, and MacCleary laughed. "Wonderful," said the Old Man. "That's the spirit. Keep that up, and you'll fool the hell out of them."

"I mean it! I'm sick of the whole childish, stupid, blind operation."
"Attaboy," said Kroner, smiling encouragingly.
"Give us two minutes to get to the saloon before you leave," said MacCleary. "Wouldn't do for us to be seen together now. And don't worry about packing. Your stuff is being packed right now, and it'll be down at the dock in time for the last boat."
He shut the door behind himself, Gelhorne, and Kroner.
Paul sank heavily back into his chair. "I quit, I quit, I quit," he said. "Do you hear me? I quit!"
"What a night," he heard Lou say on the porch.
"God smiles on the Meadows," said Doctor Gelhorne.
"Look!" said Kroner.
"The moon?" said Lou. "It is beautiful."
"The moon, yes - but look at the Oak."
"Oh - and the man," said Doctor Gelhorne. "What do you know about that!"
"A man, standing there alone with the Oak, with God and the Oak," said Kroner.
"Is the photographer around?" said Lou.
"Too late - he's going away now," said Kroner. "Who was he?" said Doctor Gelhorne.

"We'll never know," said Lou.
"I don't want to know," said Kroner. "I want to remember this scene and think of him as a little bit of all of us."
"You're talking poetry," said the Old Man. "That's good, that's good."
Paul, alone inside, exhaled a puff of smoke with too much force, and coughed. The men on the porch whispered something.
"Well, gentlemen," said Doctor Gelhorne, "shall we go?"
CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE
If Doctor Paul Proteus, former manager of the Ilium Works, hadn't found reality disquieting at all points, he wouldn't have shown himself in the saloon before boarding the last boat for the Mainland. As he made his way along the gravel path toward the noise and light of the saloon, however, the field of his consciousness narrowed down to a pinprick, and filling the field was a twinkling shot-glass.
The crowd fell silent as he entered, and then exploded into even greater excesses of happy noise. Quickly as Paul glanced about the room, he didn't catch a single man looking at him, nor, in the blurred vision of excitement, did he recognize a single face among these old friends.
"Bourbon and water," he said to the bartender.

"Sorry, sir."
"Sorry about what?"
"I can't serve you."
"Why not?"
"I've been told you're no longer a guest at the Meadows, sir." There was a prim satisfaction in the bartender's voice.
A number of people observed the incident, Kroner among them, but no one made a move to change the bartender's ruling.
It was a crude moment, and in its fetid atmosphere Paul made an ultimately crude suggestion to the bartender, and turned to leave with dignity.
What he still had to learn was that without rank, without guest privileges, he lived on a primitive level of social justice. He wasn't prepared when the bartender vaulted the bar and spun him around.
"Nobody says that to me, sonny Jim," said the bartender.
"Who the hell do you think you are?" said Paul.
"I'm no goddamn saboteur," said the bartender hotly. Everyone heard it, the ugliest word in the language, one that permitted no muttering withdrawal, no shaking of hands and forgetting it. Son-of-a-bitch could be softened with a smile, but not saboteur.
Somehow the idea of a wrecker of machines had become the smallest part of the word, like the crown of an iceberg. The greatest part of its mass, the part that called forth such poisonous emotions, was undefined: an amalgam of perversions, filth, disease, a galaxy of traits, any one of which would make a man a despicable outcast. The saboteur wasn't a wrecker of machines but an image every man

prided himself on being unlike. The saboteur was the man who, if dead, would no longer make the world a trying place to live in.
"You want me to say it again?" said the bartender. "Saboteur. You're a stinking saboteur."
It was an electrifying situation, an elemental situation. Here one big man had offered the ultimate insult to another big man. No one looked as though he were willing to bring the drama to an end, or as though he thought he could. It was like seeing a man caught in a threshing machine, beyond saving. As long as God had precipitated the tragedy, the onlookers might as well watch and learn what a threshing machine would do to a man once it caught him.
Paul hadn't hit anyone since his sophomore year in high school. He had none of what bayonet instructors hoped to instill in their pupils, the will to close with the enemy. It was an unpromising sort of will, he thought. Still, obedient to some system of involuntary nerves and glands, his hands tightened into fists, and his feet spaced themselves to form a solid bipod from which to swing.
Just as there is no encore for the 1812 Overture save "The Stars and Stripes Forever," so Paul had no choice of rejoinders. "Saboteur yourself," he said evenly, and swung at the bartender's nose.
Absurdly, the bartender collapsed, snuffling and snorting. Paul walked out into the night, like Wild Bill Hickock, like Dan'l Boone, like the bargeman on the book jacket, like - He was suddenly spun around again. For a split second, he saw the bartender's red nose, white face, white apron, and white fist. A brilliant flash illuminated the inside of his skull, and then midnight.
"Doctor Proteus - Paul."
Paul opened his eyes to find himself staring up at the Big Dipper. A cool breeze played across his aching head, and he couldn't see where the voice was coming from. Someone had stretched him out on the cement bench that ran the length of the dock, to be loaded with the band and the outgoing mail aboard the last boat for

the Mainland.
"Doctor Proteus -"
Paul sat up. His lower lip was shredded and puffed, and his mouth tasted of blood.
"Paul, sir -"
The voice seemed to be coming from behind the spiraea hedge at the foot of the dock. "Who's that?"
Young Doctor Edmund Harrison emerged from the shrubbery furtively, a highball in his hand. "I thought you might want this."
"That's real Christian of you, Doctor Harrison. Guess I'm well enough to sit up and take nourishment now."
"Wish I'd thought of it. It was Kroner's idea."
"Oh? Any message?"
"Yes - but I don't think you'll want it. I wouldn't, if I were in your spot."
"Go ahead."
"He says to tell you it's always darkest before the dawn, and every cloud has a silver lining."
"Um."
"But you ought to see the bartender," said Harrison brightly.
"Aaaaaah. Tell me all."
"He's got a nosebleed that won't stop because he can't stop sneezing. Looks like

a vicious circle that with luck could last for years."
"Wonderful." Paul felt better. "Look, you'd better beat it before your luck runs out and somebody sees you with me."
"Mind telling me what on earth you did?"
"It's a long, sordid story."
"I guess. Boy! one day you're king, the next day you're out on your tail. What're you going to do?"
Talking softly there in the dark, Paul began to appreciate what a remarkable young man he'd picked to sit down beside the first day - this Ed Harrison. Harrison had apparently taken a liking to Paul, and now, with no personal reasons for turning against Paul, he was sticking with him as a friend. This was integrity, all right, and a rare variety, because it often amounted, as it might amount now, to career suicide.
"What am I going to do? Farm, maybe. I've got a nice little farm."
"Farm, eh?" Harrison clucked his tongue reflectively. "Farm. Sounds wonderful. I've thought of that: up in the morning with the sun; working out there with your hands in the earth, just you and nature. If I had the money, sometimes I think maybe I'd throw this -"
"You want a piece of advice from a tired old man?"
"Depends on which tired old man. You?"
"Me. Don't put one foot in your job and the other in your dreams, Ed. Go ahead and quit, or resign yourself to this life. It's just too much of a temptation for fate to split you right up the middle before you've made up your mind which way to go."
"That's what happened to you?"

"Something like that." He handed Harrison the empty glass. "Thanks, better beat it. Tell Doctor Kroner it never rains but what it pours."
The cabin cruiser, Spirit of the Meadows, grumbled into her slip, and Paul climbed aboard. A few minutes later the band got on with their instruments, and a last call was put out over the loudspeakers. The lights in the saloon blinked off, and knots of remarkably sobered roisterers crossed the parade ground to their tents.
The rattle of the switch, the scratch of a needle, and the loudspeakers sang for the last time that night:
"Fare thee well, for I must leave you,
Please don't let this parting grieve you;
Fare thee well, the time has come for us to say goodbye. Adieu, adieu, kind friends, adieu, yes, adieu! . . ."
And Paul waved wanly, apathetically. This was goodbye to his life so far, to the whole of his father's life. He hadn't had the satisfaction of telling someone he'd quit, of being believed; but he'd quit. Goodbye. None of this had anything to do with him any more. Better to be nothing than a blind doorman at the head of civilization's parade.
And as Paul said these things to himself, a wave of sadness washed over them as though they'd been written in sand. He was understanding now that no man could live without roots - roots in a patch of desert, a red clay field, a mountain slope, a rocky coast, a city street. In black loam, in mud or sand or rock or asphalt or carpet, every man had his roots down deep - in home. A lump grew in his

throat, and he couldn't do anything about it. Doctor Paul Proteus was saying goodbye forever to home.
"So long," he said. And then, in spite of himself, "So long, gang."
A laggard group, genuinely inebriated, was being coaxed out of the saloon. They were singing an effusively sentimental rendition of "Toast the Oak." They draped their arms over each other's shoulders; and made clumsily for the great tree. Their voices came clearly to Paul over the flat, green lawns:
"Grown from but an acorn, Giant now you are;
May you ne'er stop growing; Rise to the stars!
Proud sy-him-bol a-hov Ourrrrrrrrs."
There was a reverent pause, broken by an exclamation. "Jesus!" It was Berringer's voice, Berringer's word.
" 'Smatter?"
"Look at the tree - around the bottom!"
"Holy smokes!"
"Somebody's stripped the bark off clear around," said Berringer hollowly.

"Who?"
"Who do you think?" said Berringer. "That stinking saboteur. Where is he?"
The Spirit of the Meadows gunned her engines and backed into open water.
"Hey," cried a lonely, frightened voice in the night. "Hey - somebody's killed the Oak."
"Killed the Oak," echoed the shore.
The loudspeakers clattered on again, and a chilling war whoop filled the air. "Beware the Ghost Shirt!" shrieked a terrible voice.
"Ghost Shirt," said the shore, and all was deathly still. CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR
En route by air from Miami Beach to Ithaca, New York, home of Cornell University, the Shah of Bratpuhr caught a nasty cold. When seven prakhouls (that quantity of fluid that can be contained in the skin of an adult male Bratpuhrian marmot) of Sumklish improved the Shah's spirits but did nothing for his respiratory system, it was decided that the plane should land in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, in order that the Shah might rest and try the magic of American medicine.
With seven prakhouls of Sumklish under his belt, the Shah called cheery

messages to pretty female Takarus on his way to the doctor's office.
"Pitty fit-fit, sibi Takaru? Niki fit-fit. Akka sahn nibo fit-fit, simi Takaru?"
Khashdrahr, who was without the benefit of Sumklish, was livid with embarrassment. "Shah says it is a nice day," he explained unhappily.
"Fit-fit, pu sibi bonanza?" called the Shah to a small blonde who had her hands in a streetcorner manicure machine.
She blushed, and jerked her hands from the machine and stalked away, leaving the machine to buff away at nothingness. A street urchin stuck his grubby hands in for the remainder of the operation, and drew them out with gleaming, red- enameled nails.
"I'm glad he likes the weather," said Halyard glumly. For many weeks now, they'd traveled without the subject's coming up once, and Halyard had hopefully told himself that the Shah really was different from his other guests in this respect, different from the French and Bolivians and Czechs and Japanese and Panamanians and Yaps and. . . . But, no. The Shah, too, was now getting curious about American-type women. Halyard, at a frightful price in dignity, was once more going to have to perform the role of utterly perfect host - or pimp.
"Fit-fit?" called the Shah, as they pulled up to a stoplight.
"Look," said Halyard reproachfully to Khashdrahr, "tell him he just can't walk up to any American girl at all and ask her to sleep with him. I'll see what I can do, but it won't be easy."
Khashdrahr told the Shah, who waved him away. Before anyone could stop him, the Shah was out on the sidewalk, confidently confronting a startlingly beautiful, dark-skinned brunette. "Fit-fit, sibi Takaru?"
"Please," said Halyard to her, "please excuse my friend. He's a bit under the weather."

She took the Shah's arm, and together they climbed back into the limousine.
"I'm afraid there's been a terrible misunderstanding, young lady," said Halyard. "I hardly know how to put it. I, ah, he, that is - What I mean to say, rather, is he wasn't offering you a ride."
"He was asking for something, wasn't he?" "Yes."
"There's been no misunderstanding." "Fit-fit," said the Shah.
"Quite so," said Halyard.
Khashdrahr began looking out of the window with fresh interest, wildness, in fact, and Halyard had difficulty holding himself in check.
"Here we are," said the driver. "Here's Doctor Pepkowitz's office."
"Yes, well, you wait in the car, young lady," said Halyard, "while the Shah goes in here for a cold treatment."
The Shah was grinning, and inhaling and exhaling rapidly.
"His sniffles are gone," said Khashdrahr wonderingly.
"Drive on," said Halyard. He had seen a similar miracle cure of an Ecuadorian brigadier's hives.
The girl seemed restless and unhappy, and utterly out of character, Halyard thought. She smiled constantly, unconvincingly, and was apparently anxious to get the whole thing over with. Halyard still couldn't believe that she knew what the whole thing was.

"Where are we going now?" she said, grimly cheerful. "A hotel, I suppose."
"Yes," said Halyard unevenly.
"Good." She patted the Shah on his shoulder, and burst into tears.
The Shah was distressed and tried clumsily to comfort her. "Oh, nibo souri, sibi Takaru. Akka sahn souri? Ohhh. Tipi Takaru. Ahhhh."
"There, now," said Halyard. "See here."
"I don't do this every day," she said, blowing her nose. "Please excuse me. I'll try to be better."
"Certainly. We understand," said Halyard. "The whole thing has been a terrible mistake. Where would you like us to leave you off?"
"Oh, no - I'm going through with it," she said gloomily.
"Please -" said Halyard. "Perhaps it would be better for all concerned if -"
"If I lost my husband? Better if he shot himself or starved?"
"Certainly not! But why would those terrible things happen if you refused to - That is -"
"It's a long story." She dried her eyes. "My husband, Ed, is a writer." "What's his classification number?" said Halyard.
"That's just it. He hasn't one."
"Then how can you call him a writer?" said Halyard.
"Because he writes," she said.

"My dear girl," said Halyard paternally, "on that basis, we're all writers."
"Two days ago he had a number - W-441."
"Fiction novice," Halyard explained to Khashdrahr.
"Yes," she said, "and he was to have it until he'd completed his novel. After that, he was supposed to get either a W-440 -"
"Fiction journeyman," said Halyard.
"Or a W-255."
"Public relations," said Halyard.
"Please, what are public relations?" said Khashdrahr.
"That profession," said Halyard, quoting by memory from the Manual, "that profession specializing in the cultivation, by applied psychology in mass communication media, of favorable public opinion with regard to controversial issues and institutions, without being offensive to anyone of importance, and with the continued stability of the economy and society its primary goal."
"Oh well, never mind," said Khashdrahr. "Please go on with your story, sibi Takaru."
"Two months ago he submitted his finished manuscript to the National Council of Arts and Letters for criticism and assignment to one of the book clubs."
"There are twelve of them," Halyard interrupted. "Each one selects books for a specific type of reader."
"There are twelve types of readers?" said Khashdrahr.
"There is now talk of a thirteenth and fourteenth," said Halyard. "The line has to

be drawn somewhere, of course, because of the economics of the thing. In order to be self-supporting, a book club has to have at least a half-million members, or it isn't worth setting up the machinery - the electronic billers, the electronic addressers, the electronic wrappers, the electronic presses, and the electronic dividend computers."
"And the electronic writers," said the girl bitterly.
"That'll come, that'll come," said Halyard. "But Lord knows getting manuscripts isn't any trick. That's hardly the problem. Machinery's the thing. One of the smaller clubs, for instance, covers four city blocks. DSM."
"DSM?" said Khashdrahr.
"Excuse me. Dog Story of the Month."
Khashdrahr and the Shah shook their heads slowly and made clucking sounds. "Four city blocks," echoed Khashdrahr hollowly.
"Well, a fully automatic setup like that makes culture very cheap. Book costs less than seven packs of chewing gum. And there are picture clubs, too - pictures for your walls at amazingly cheap prices. Matter of fact, culture's so cheap, a man figured he could insulate his house cheaper with books and prints than he could with rockwool. Don't think it's true, but it's a cute story with a good point."
"And painters are well supported under this club system?" asked Khashdrahr.
"Supported - I guess!" said Halyard. "It's the Golden Age of Art, with millions of dollars a year poured into reproductions of Rembrandts, Whistlers, Goyas, Renoirs, El Grecos, Dégas, da Vincis, Michelangelos . . ."
"These club members, they get just any book, any picture?" asked Khashdrahr.
"I should say not! A lot of research goes into what's run off, believe me. Surveys of public reading tastes, readability and appeal tests on books being

considered. Heavens, running off an unpopular book would put a club out of business like that!" He snapped his fingers ominously. "The way they keep culture so cheap is by knowing in advance what and how much of it people want. They get it right, right down to the color of the jacket. Gutenberg would be amazed."
"Gutenberg?" said Khashdrahr.
"Sure - the man who invented movable type. First man to mass-produce Bibles."
"Alla sutta takki?" said the Shah.
"Eh?" said Halyard.
"Shah wants to know if he made a survey first."
"Anyway," said the girl, "my husband's book was rejected by the Council."
"Badly written," said Halyard primly. "The standards are high."
"Beautifully written," she said patiently. "But it was twenty-seven pages longer than the maximum length; its readability quotient was 26.3, and -"
"No club will touch anything with an R.Q. above 17," explained Halyard.
"And," the girl continued, "it had an antimachine theme."
Halyard's eyebrows arched high. "Well! I should hope they wouldn't print it! What on earth does he think he's doing? Good lord, you're lucky if he isn't behind bars, inciting to advocate the commission of sabotage like that. He didn't really think somebody'd print it, did he?"
"He didn't care. He had to write it, so he wrote it."
"Why doesn't he write about clipper ships, or something like that? This book

about the old days on the Erie Canal - the man who wrote that is cleaning up. Big demand for that bare-chested stuff."
She shrugged helplessly. "Because he never got mad at clipper ships or the Erie Canal, I guess."
"He sounds very maladjusted," said Halyard distastefully. "If you ask me, my dear, he needs the help of a competent psychiatrist. They do wonderful things in psychiatry these days. Take perfectly hopeless cases, and turn them into grade A citizens. Doesn't he believe in psychiatry?"
"Yes, indeed. He watched his brother find peace of mind through psychiatry. That's why he won't have anything to do with it."
"I don't follow. Isn't his brother happy?"
"Utterly and always happy. And my husband says somebody's just got to be maladjusted; that somebody's got to be uncomfortable enough to wonder where people are, where they're going, and why they're going there. That was the trouble with his book. It raised those questions, and was rejected. So he was ordered into public-relations duty."
"So the story has a happy ending after all," said Halyard. "Hardly. He refused."
"Lordy!"
"Yes. He was notified that, unless he reported for public-relations duty by yesterday, his subsistence, his housing permit, his health and security package, everything, would be revoked. So today, when you came along, I was wandering around town, wondering what on earth a girl could do these days to make a few dollars. There aren't many things."
"This husband of yours, he'd rather have his wife a - Rather, have her -" Halyard

cleared his throat " - than go into public relations?"
"I'm proud to say," said the girl, "that he's one of the few men on earth with a little self-respect left."
Khashdrahr translated this last bit, and the Shah shook his head sadly. The Shah removed a ruby ring and pressed it into her hand. "Ti, sibi Takaru. Dibo. Brahous brahouna, houna saki. Ippi goura Brahouna ta tippo a mismit." He opened the limousine door for her.
"What did the gentleman say?" she asked.
"He said to take the ring, pretty little citizen," said Khashdrahr tenderly. "He said goodbye and good luck, and that some of the greatest prophets were crazy as bedbugs."
"Thank you, sir," she said, climbing out and starting to cry again. "God bless you."
The limousine pulled away from her. The Shah waved wistfully. "Dibo, sibi Takaru," he said, and was seized by a violent sneezing fit. He blew his nose. "Sumklish!"
Khashdrahr handed him the sacred flask. CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE
When the spirit of the meadows churned up to the dock at the Mainland, the public

address system, turned low, was murmuring "Good Night, Sweetheart," a sweet wraith of music a whisper above the voice in the pines, the lapping of the great blue water, the whir of the eagle wing.
No lights shone from the women's and children's lodges. In the Central Administration Building was a single square of light, silhouetting a sleeping clerk.
As Paul made for it, to ask the clerk where he might find Anita, lights flashed in his night-accustomed eyes. When his pupils had adjusted themselves to the glare, he found himself staring at his reflection in a mirror again, under the legend, THE BEST WIFE FOR THE BEST MAN FOR THE BEST JOB IN THE WORLD.
He hurried past the mirror, wondering how many times Anita had contemplated her reflection and the legend here, wondering how she would take the news that her Best Man had become merely a man, with no job at all.
He woke up the clerk, who called the matron in charge of the lodge where Anita slept.
"What's matter with the party over there?" said the clerk sleepily, waiting for the matron to answer. "You're about the tenth guy to come over here tonight. Usually they don't start coming until about the fourth day. Now, what's the matter with the matron, anyway? The phone's right by her bunk." He glanced at the clock. "You know what time it is? You haven't got time to make a nickel. The last boat back for the island leaves in three minutes."
"Keep ringing. I'm not going back."
"If you're going to spend the night, don't tell me about it. There're about twenty- seven rules against it."
Paul handed him a ten-dollar bill. "Keep ringing."
"For that, you can be invisible for a week. Whaddya like? Blondes, brunettes, redheads? Aha! She answered. Where the hell you been?" he asked the matron.

"You got a Mrs. Paul Proteus there?" He nodded. "Uh-huh, uh-huh. O.K. Leave a note on her bunk, will you." He turned to Paul. "She's out, Doctor."
"Out?"
"Walking in the moonlight, probably. Matron says she's a great walker."
If Anita was a great walker, it was news to Paul. He'd seen her drive a car to the house across the street from theirs, and she denied all the tenets of physical culture by remaining young and graceful while eating like a farmhand and conserving her strength like a princess. Bound feet and six-inch fingernails wouldn't have restricted her activities in the least.
Paul sat down on a wicker chair in the cool blue shadows of the Administration Building's porch and rested his feet on the peeling bark of the log railing to wait.
Now the lights along the walks blinked on and off, a silent signal, warning that the last boat was about to leave for the island.
There was laughing, and quick crunching in the gravel, and a couple ran from the woods toward the dock. Their insistence on keeping their arms about each other's waists made their progress as graceless as a sack race. This annoyed Paul as a critic. It was painful to watch a clumsily conducted mating rite, knowing, from long experience with the skilled Anita, how much like a dance it could be when done properly.
There - she was making him slow down now, and their gait through the trees, against the moon, was more orderly. Paul had been sure that the farewell kiss would be an ungainly business, but, all credit to her, they stopped, and took the time and stances to do it right. Good.
Paul watched them with increasing identification with the man. Paul had always been a petty thief of others' high moments, and his hunger for this particular sort of moment was acute. With his old life gone, and his new one, whatever it was to be, not yet begun, he was voracious for love - Anita's love, vividly imagined love,

vicarious love - any love, whatever was immediately available.
Now she was coming back, slowly, thoughtfully, content. Wonderful.
The lights on the booby-trap mirror flashed on. The woman smoothed her slacks over her hips and tucked in a wisp of hair. She lingered before her image a long time, turning this way and that, seemingly pleased, as well she might be, by the shape of her breasts ingenuously hidden under tight green cotton, with the word "Captain" undulating uphill, downdale.
"Anita!"
She jumped, and quickly folded her arms across her bosom in a protective gesture. Slowly her arms went to her sides again, and she stood erect, a woman with nothing to hide, least of all Shepherd's shirt. "Hello, Paul." She walked over to the porch where he sat, stately, cold, and sat down beside him. "Well?"
When he said nothing, her poise began to fail and she plucked nervously at the bark on the log railing, pulling off little strips and throwing them out into the summer night. "Go ahead," she said at last.
"Me go ahead?" said Paul.
"Don't you think an explanation is in order?"
"Decidedly."
"You did get fired, didn't you?"
"Yes, but not for breaking a Commandment."
"Is wearing another man's shirt adultery in your book?" Underneath, she was plainly rattled.
Paul was delighted. He was sure now that he could bluff her into coming away

with him. It was inconceivable that she was using the boring, sententious, contentious Shepherd for anything but a hollow threat to him, but this semblance of wrongdoing could now be turned to advantage. "Wouldn't you say the shirt was symptomatic, coupled with fornication in the underbrush?" he said.
"If you mean do I love him, the answer is yes."
Paul laughed quietly.
"I'm glad you're taking it so well," she said primly. "I guess it proves what I thought all along."
"Which was -?"
Unexpectedly she burst into tears. "That I wasn't any damn use to you at all! Finnerty was right," she sobbed. "All you need is something stainless steel, shaped like a woman, covered with sponge rubber, and heated to body temperature."
It was Paul's turn to be startled. "Anita - darling, listen." "And you'd lend it to anybody, if you didn't need it just then." "Hell's bells, I -"
"I'm sick of being treated like a machine! You go around talking about what engineers and managers do to all the other poor, dumb people. Just look what an engineer and manager did to me!"
"For heaven's sakes, sweetheart, I - "
"You talk about how wrong it is for smart people to lord it over people who aren't so smart, and then go around our house showing off your great big I.Q. like it was on a sandwich sign. All right, so I'm dumb."
"No you aren't, Angel. Listen, I - "

"Saboteur!"
Paul fell back in his seat and shook his head, as though groggily trying to avoid a clubbing. "For the love of God, listen, will you?" he begged.
"Go on." She was magnificently on top of the situation again.
"Darling, what you say may be true. I don't know. But please, sweetheart, wife, I need you now like I never needed anybody in all my life."
"Ten minutes ought to take care of that. At the outside," she added scornfully.
"For richer, for poorer, in sickness as in health," said Paul. "Remember that Anita? Do you remember?"
"You're still rich, and you're not sick." She looked at him with passing concern. "You're not sick, are you?"
"At heart."
"You'll get used to it. I did."
"I'm sorry, Anita - I didn't know it had been that bad. I see now that it probably was."
"Next time I'll marry for love."
"Shepherd?"
"He needs me, respects me, believes in the things I believe in."
"I hope you'll be very happy," said Paul, standing.
Her lips trembled, and she burst into tears again. "Paul, Paul, Paul."

"Hmmmm?"
"I like you. Don't forget that ever."
"And I like you, Anita."
"Doctor Proteus," called the clerk through the window. "Yes?"
"Doctor Kroner called and said you were to be driven over to the railroad station tonight. The jeep's on the other side of the building, waiting. We've got half an hour to make the 12:52."
"Coming."
"Kiss me," said Anita.
It was a stunning kiss, and, in its wake of lackadaisicalness, Paul realized that she had had absolutely nothing to gain by the kiss, that she had done it out of, of all things, the goodness of her heart.
"Come with me, Anita," he whispered.
"I'm not as dumb as you think." She pushed him away firmly. "Goodbye."
CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX

Doctor Paul Proteus, an unclassified human being, was put aboard the 12:52, where he shared an ancient coach, half cuspidor, half humidor, with sixty troops on furlough from Camp Drum.
"Great Bend. The stop is Great Bend," said a tape recording through a loudspeaker over Paul's head. The engineer pressed a button in his cab as he pulled into each station, down came the steps, and out came the voice. "Next station, Carthage. Next station, Carthage. Click."
" 'Board!" bawled another loudspeaker on the outside of the car.
An old man, kissing his wife goodbye on the rotting planks of the Great Bend platform, looked apologetically at the urgent voice, as though to ask the man to wait just a second more for him to say one last word. " 'Board!" Machinery whirred, and the coach steps arose from the platform, nestled into one another, and disappeared into their niche.
"Coming! Coming!" cried the old man, and jogged unhappily toward the moving train as fast as his brittle legs would carry him. He caught the handrail, swung aboard, and stood panting in the vestibule. He fumbled for his ticket, dropped it into the mechanism on the door. The mechanism considered it, found everything in order, pulled back the door bolt, and let him into the frieze and cast- iron monument to tobacco.
He settled, winded, in the seat next to Paul's. "Son-of-a-bitch won't even wait a second for an old man," he said bitterly.
"It's a machine," said Paul. "All automatic." "Don't mean he ain't a son-of-a-bitch."
Paul nodded appreciatively.
"Used to be conductor on this line."

"Oh?" The man had the florid, righteous look of a specialized bore, and Paul wasn't interested in listening to him.
"Yes, forty-one years," he said. "For-tee-wunnn years!"
"Huh!"
"For-tee-wunnnn. Two times twenty plus one. And I'd like to see one of them machines deliver a baby."
"Huh! You delivered a baby, eh?"
"Yep. Little boy. By coincidence I done it in the men's room." He chuckled richly. "For-tee-wunnnn years!"
"Huh."
"And I never seen the machine yet that'd watch out for a little girl three years old all the way from St. Louis to Poughkeepsie."
"Nope. Guess not," said Paul. He filed this remark away for his next meeting with Bud Calhoun. He could see the device now - sort of an Iron Maiden, without the spikes, of course, and electronic, of course, that would grasp a little girl firmly at St. Louis, and eject her into the arms of relatives at Poughkeepsie.
"For-tee-wunnnn years! With machines you get quan-titty, but you don't get qual-itty. Know what I mean?"
"Yup," said Paul.
"Carthage," said the tape recording. "The stop is Carthage. Next station, Deer
River."
Paul settled back against the unyielding seat with a sigh of relaxation, and closed his eyes in a pretense of sleep.

"For-tee-wunnnn years! These machines never help an old lady down the steps."
In time the old conductor ran out of examples of man's superiority over machines and took to anticipating the tape recording's station calling, casually, contemptuously, as though any fool could do it. "Deer River. The stop is Deer River. Next station, Castorland."
"Deer River. The stop is Deer River," said the tape recording. "Next station, Castorland."
"Ha! What'd I tell you?"
Paul actually did drop off to sleep fitfully, and at last, at Constableville, he saw his companion slipping his ticket into the door slot and being let off. Paul checked his ticket to make sure it wasn't bent or torn, that it would unlock the door at Ilium. He'd heard tales of addled old ladies locked aboard cars for days for having misplaced their tickets, or for having missed their stops. Hardly a newspaper was printed that didn't have a human interest story about car clean-up crews from the Reeks and Wrecks liberating somebody.
The old displaced conductor disappeared into the Constableville night, and Paul wondered at what thorough believers in mechanization most Americans were, even when their lives had been badly damaged by mechanization. The conductor's plaint, like the lament of so many, wasn't that it was unjust to take jobs from men and give them to machines, but that the machines didn't do nearly as many human things as good designers could have made them do.
"Constableville. The stop is Constableville. Next station, Remsen."
A poker game was going on in the facing seats behind Paul, and a superannuated first sergeant, zebra-like under symbols for patience, individual bloodlettings, and separations from home, was telling tales of the last war - of the Last War.

"Jesus," he said, riffling through the deck absently, as though his mind were a thousand miles away, "there we was, and there they was. Imagine the men's room there's a hogback, with the bastards dug in deep on the reverse slope." The recruits looked at the men's room through narrowed, battle-wise eyes, and the sergeant shuffled the cards some more. "The night before, a lucky shot knocked out the generator."
"Holy cow!" said a recruit.
"You can say that again," said the sergeant. "Anyway - five-card stud, nothing wild - there we were with no juice, eighteen of us facing five hundred of them. The microwave sentinels, the proximity mines, the electric fence, the fire-control system, the remote-control machine gun nests - pfft! No juice, Queen, ace, ace, and dealer gets a deuce. Bet the first ace.
"Well, boys - a dime to me? Raise it a dime just to make things interesting. Well, boys, then the fun started. At seven hundred hours they tried a hundred-man patrol on us, to see what we had. And we had nothin'! And communications was cut to hell, so we couldn't call for nothin'. All our robot tanks'd been pulled out to support a push the 106th was makin', so we was really alone. Snafu. So, I sent Corporal Merganthaler back to battalion for help. - Two queens, no help, two aces, and dealer catches another lousy deuce. Bet the aces. So over they come, screamin' bloody murder, and us with nothing but our goddamn rifles and bayonets workin'. Looked like a tidal wave comin' over at us. - Aces check? Aw, hell, deuces'll try a dime. - Just then, up comes Merganthaler with a truck and generator he's moonlight-requisitioned from the 57th. We hooked her into our lines, cranked her up, and my God, I wish you could of seen it. The poor bastards fryin' on the electric fence, the proximity mines poppin' under 'em, the microwave sentinels openin' up with the remote-control machine-gun nests, and the fire-control system swiveling the guns and flamethrowers around as long as anything was quiverin' within a mile of the place. And that's how I got the Silver Star."
Paul shook his head slightly as he listened to the sergeant's absurd tale. That, then, was the war he had been so eager to get into at one time, the opportunity for

basic, hot-tempered, hard-muscled heroism he regretted having missed. There had been plenty of death, plenty of pain, all right, and plenty of tooth-grinding stoicism and nerve. But men had been called upon chiefly to endure by the side of the machines, the terrible engines that fought with their own kind for the right to gorge themselves on men. Horatio on the bridge had become a radio-guided rocket with an atomic warhead and a proximity fuse. Roland and Oliver had become a pair of jet-driven computers hurtling toward each other far faster than the flight of a man's scream. The great tradition of the American rifleman survived only symbolically, in volleys fired into the skies over the dead in thousands of military cemeteries. Those in the graves, the front-line dead, were heirs to another American tradition as old as that of the rifleman, but once a peaceful tradition - that of the American tinker.
"Gosh! Sarge, how come you never went after a commission?"
"Me go back to college at my age? I'm not the school kind, sonny. Gettin' that B.S. was enough for me. Two more years and an M.A. for a pair of lousy gold bars? Naaaaaah! - And a queen, and no help, and a jack, and no help, and a five, and no help, and dealer gets a - what do you know? Three deuces. Looks like my lucky day, boys."
"Middleville. The stop is Middleville. Next station, Herkimer."
"Sarge, d'ya mind talkin' about your wound stripes?"
"Hmmm? No - guess not. This 'un's for a dose of Gamma rays at Kiukiang. This 'un's - lemme see - radioactive dust in the bronchial tubes at Afyon Karahisar. And this little bastard - uh - trenchfoot at Kransystav."
"Sarge, what was the best piece you ever had?"
"A little redheaded half-Swede, half-Egyptian in Farafangana," said the Sarge without hesitation.
"Boy! I hope that's where they send me."

That much of a fine old American military tradition, Paul supposed, would always be alive - send me where the tail is.
"Herkimer. The stop is Herkimer. Next station, Little Falls."
"Say, Sarge, is this train a local?"
"You might call it that. How's about a round of cold hands for the odd change?" said the sergeant.
"O.K. with me. Oops. Lousy trey. A queen for Charley. An eight for Lou. And, I'll be go to hell, the Sarge catches a bullet."
"Say, Sarge, hear Pfc. Elmo Hacketts is shipping out."
"Yep. Been asking for overseas ever since he joined the outfit. Pair of treys for Ed, nothing for Charley, jack for Lou, and dealer catches a - I'll be damned."
"Ace!"
"Little Falls. The stop is Little Falls. Next station, Johnsonville."
"Here we go around again, and - What you know about that?" said the sergeant. "Ed's got three treys. Yep - hate to see Hacketts go. With a coupla years seasoning, I could see him as a helluva fine guidon bearer. But, if he wants to throw all that over, that's his business. Nothing for Charley, and Lou gets my ace. Three treys got it so far."
"Where's Hacketts going? You know?"
"And no help, and help, and no help, and no help," said the sergeant. "Yeah, his orders came through today. Last time around, boys. No help, no help, no help, and - "

"Jesus!"
"Sorry about that third ace, Ed. Guess that one's mine too. Yeah, Hacketts gets his overseas duty all right. Shipping out for Tamanrasset tomorrow morning."
"Tamanrasset?"
"The Sahara Desert, you dumb bastard. Don't you know any geography?" He grinned wolfishly. "How about a little blackjack for laughs?"
Paul sighed for Hacketts, born into a spiritual desert, now being shipped to where the earth was sterile, too.
"Johnsonville . . . Ft. Plain . . . Fonda . . . Ft. Johnson . . . Amsterdam . . . Schenectady . . . Cohoes . . . Watervliet . . . Albany . . . Rensselaer . . . Ilium, the stop is Ilium."
Bleary-eyed, Paul shuffled to the door, inserted his ticket, and stepped onto the Ilium station platform.
The door on the baggage compartment clattered open, a coffin slid onto a waiting freight elevator and was taken into the refrigerated bowels of the station.
No cabs had bothered to meet the unpromising train. Paul phoned the cab company, but no one answered. He looked helplessly at the automatic ticket vendor, the automatic nylon vendor, the automatic coffee vendor, the automatic gum vendor, the automatic book vendor, the automatic newspaper vendor, the automatic toothbrush vendor, the automatic Coke vendor, the automatic shoeshine machine, the automatic photo studio, and walked out into the deserted streets on the Homestead side of the river.
It was eight miles through Homestead, across the bridge, and up the other side of the river to home. Not home, Paul thought, but the house where his bed was.
He felt dull, mushy inside, with an outer glaze of bright heat - sleepy yet

sleepless, assailed by thoughts yet thoughtless.
His footsteps echoed against Homestead's gray façades, and lifeless neon tubes, proclaiming one thing and another of no importance at this hour, were empty, cold glass for want of the magic of electrons in flight through inert gas.
"Lonesome?"
"Huh?"
A young woman, with bosoms like balloon spinnakers before the wind, looked down from a second-story window. "I said, are you lonesome?"
"Yes," said Paul simply.
"Come on up."
"Well," Paul heard himself saying, "all right, I will." "The door next to the Automagic Market."
He climbed the long, dark stairway, each riser of which proclaimed Doctor Harry Friedmann to be a painless dentist, licensed under the National Security and Health Plan. "Why," asked Friedmann rhetorically, "settle for less than a D-006?"
The door on the hallway, next to Doctor Friedmann's, was open, the woman waiting.
"What's your name, honey?"
"Proteus."
"Any relation to the big cheese across the river?" "My half-brother."

"You the black sheep, honey?" "Yup."
"Screw your brother." "Please," said Paul.
He awoke once during the remainder of the night with her, awoke from a dream in which he saw his father glowering at him from the foot of the bed.
She mumbled in her sleep.
As Paul dropped off once more, he murmured an automatic reply. "And I love
you, Anita."
CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN
Doctor Paul Proteus had been his own man, alone in his own house for a week. He'd been expecting some sort of communication from Anita, but nothing came. There was nothing more, he realized wonderingly, to be said. She was still at the Mainland, probably. The Meadows session had another week to run. After that would come the muddle of her separating her effects from his - and divorce. He wondered on what grounds she would divorce him. Extreme mental cruelty amused him, and he supposed it was close enough to the truth. Any variation from any norm pained her terribly. She'd have to leave New York State, of course, since the only grounds for divorce there were adultery, and incitement to conspire to advocate sabotage. A case could be made for either, he supposed, but not with

dignity.
Paul had gone to his farm once, and, in the manner of a man dedicating his life to God, he'd asked Mr. Haycox to put him to work, guiding the hand of Nature. The hand he grasped so fervently, he soon discovered, was coarse and sluggish, hot and wet and smelly. And the charming little cottage he'd taken as a symbol of the good life of a farmer was as irrelevant as a statue of Venus at the gate of a sewage-disposal plant. He hadn't gone back.
He'd been to the Works once. The machinery had been shut off during the Meadows session, and only the guards were on duty. Four of them, now officious and scornful, had telephoned to Kroner at the Meadows for instructions. Then they'd escorted him to what had been his desk, where he'd picked up a few personal effects. They'd made a list of what he'd taken, and questioned his claim to each item. Then they'd marched him back into the outside world, and shut the gates against him forever and ever.
Paul was in the kitchen now, before the laundry console, seated on a stool, watching television. It was late afternoon, and, for the unadorned hell of it, he was doing his own laundry.
"Urdle-urdle-urdle," went the console. "Urdle-urdle-ur dull! Znick. Bazz-wap!" Chimes sounded. "Azzzzzzzzzz. Fromp!" Up came the anticlimactic offering: three pairs of socks, three pairs of shorts, and the blue Meadow's T-shirts, which he was using for pajamas.
On the television screen, a middle-aged woman was counseling her teen-age son, whose hair and clothes were disordered and soiled.
"Fightin' don't help, Jimmy," she was saying sadly. "Lord knows nobody ever brought any more sunshine into the world by bloodyin' somebody's nose, or by havin' his own nose bloodied."
"I know - but he said my I.Q. was 59, Ma!" The boy was on the point of tears, he was so furious and hurt. "And he said Pop was a 53!"

"Now, now - that's just child's talk. Don't you pay it no mind, Jimmy."
"But it's true," said the boy brokenly. "Ma, it's true. I went down to the police station and looked it up! Fifty-nine, Ma! and poor Pop with a 53." He turned his back, and his voice was a bitter whisper: "And you with a 47, Ma. A 47."
She bit her lip and looked heartbroken, then, seeming to draw strength miraculously from somewhere above eye level, she gripped the kitchen table. "Jimmy, look at your mother."
He turned slowly.
"Jimmy, I.Q. isn't everything. Some of the unhappiest people in this world are the smartest ones."
Since the start of his week of idleness at home, Paul had learned that this, with variations, was the basic problem situation in afternoon dramas, with diseases and injuries of the optic nerve and locomotor apparatus close seconds. One program was an interminable exploration of the question: can a woman with a low I.Q. be happily married to a man with a high one? The answer seemed to be yes and no.
"Jimmy, boy, son - I.Q. won't get you happiness, and St. Peter don't give I.Q. tests before he lets you in those Pearly Gates. The wickedest people that ever lived was the smartest."
Jimmy looked suspicious, then surprised, then guardedly willing to be convinced. "You mean - plain fellow like me, just another guy, folks like us, Ma, you mean we're as good as, as, as, well, Doctor Garson, the Works Manager?"
"Doctor Garson, with his 169 I.Q.? Doctor Garson, with his Ph.D., D.Sc., and his Ph. and D. I-don't-know-what-else? Him?"
"Yeah, Ma. Him."

"Him? Doctor Garson? Jimmy, son, boy - have you seen the bags under his eyes? Have you seen the lines in his face? He's carryin' the world around on his shoulders, Jimmy. That's what a high I.Q. got him, Doctor Garson. Do you know how old he is?"
"An awful old man, Ma."
"He's ten years younger than your Pa, Jimmy. That's what brains got him."
Pa came in at that moment, wearing the brassard of a Reconstruction and Reclamation Corps Asphalt Leveler, First Class. He was cheery, pink, in first-rate health. "Hi, there, folks," he said. "Everything hunky-dory in my little old home, eh?"
Jimmy exchanged glances with his mother, and smiled oddly. "Yessir, reckon it is. I mean, you're darn right it is!"
In came the organ music, the announcer, and the washless, rinseless wash powder, and Paul turned down the volume.
The door chimes were ringing, and Paul wondered how long they'd been at it. He might have turned on the televiewer, to see if the bell ringer was worth opening the door for, but he was hungry for companionship - just about any kind - and he went to the door gladly, gratefully.
A policeman looked at him coldly. "Doctor Proteus?" "Yes?"
"I'm from the police."
"So I see."
"You haven't registered."

"Oh." Paul smiled. "Oh - I've been meaning to do that." And he had meant to do it, too.
The policeman did not smile. "Then why haven't you?" "I haven't found the time."
"You better start looking for it, hard, Doc."
Paul was annoyed by this rude young man, and he was inclined, as he had been inclined with the bartender at the Meadows, to put him in his place. But he thought better of it this time. "All right. I'll be down to register tomorrow morning."
"You'll be down to register in an hour, today, Doc." The honorific Doc, Paul was learning, could be spoken in such a way as to make a man wish to God he'd never come within ten miles of a university.
"Yes - all right, whatever you say."
"And your industrial identification card - you've failed to turn that in." "Sorry. I'll do that."
"And your firearms and ammunition permit."
"I'll bring that."
"And your club membership card."
"I'll find it."
"And your airline pass."
"All right."
"And your executive security and health policy. You'll have to get a regular

one."
"Whatever you say."
"I think that's all. If anything else comes up, I'll let you know."
"I'm sure you will."
The young policeman's expression softened suddenly, and he shook his head. "Lo! How the mighty are fallen, eh, Doc?"
"Lo! indeed," said Paul.
And an hour later Paul reported politely at the police station, with a shoebox full of revoked privileges.
While he waited for someone to notice him, he interested himself in the radiophoto machine behind glass in one corner, which was fashioning a portrait of a fugitive, and noting beside it a brief biography. The portrait emerged from a slit in the top of the machine bit by bit - first the hair, then the brows, on line with the word WANTED, and then, on line with the large, fey eyes, the name: Edgar Rice Burroughs Hagstrohm, R&R-131313. Hagstrohm's sordid tale emerged along with his nose: "Hagstrohm cut up his M-17 home in Chicago with a blow-torch, went naked to the home of Mrs. Marion Frascati, the widow of an old friend, and demanded that she come to the woods with him. Mrs. Frascati refused, and he disappeared into the bird sanctuary bordering the housing development. There he eluded police, and is believed to have made his escape dropping from a tree onto a passing freight -"
"You!" said the desk sergeant. "Proteus!"
Registration involved the filling out of a long, annoyingly complicated form that started with his name and highest classification number, investigated his reasons for having fallen from grace, asked for the names of his closest friends and relatives, and ended with an oath of allegiance to the United States of America.

Paul signed the document in the presence of two witnesses, and watched a coding clerk translate it, on a keyboard, into terms the machines could understand. Out came a card, freshly nicked and punched.
"That's all," said the police sergeant. He dropped the card into a slot, and the card went racing through a system of switches and sidings, until it came to rest against a thick pile of similar cards.
"What does that mean?" said Paul.
The sergeant looked at the pile without interest. "Potential saboteurs."
"Wait a minute - what's going on here? Who says I am?"
"No reflection on you," said the sergeant patiently. "Nobody's said you are. It's all automatic. The machines do it."
"What right have they got to say that about me?"
"Oh, they know, they know," said the sergeant. "They've been around. They do that with anybody who's got more'n four years of college and no job." He studied Paul through narrowed lids. "And you'd be surprised, Doc, how right they are."
A detective walked in, perspiring and discouraged.
"Any break on the Freeman case, Sid?" said the sergeant, losing interest in Paul. "Nah. All the good suspects came off clean as a whistle on the lie detector." "Did you check the tubes?"
"Sure. We put in a whole new set, had the circuits checked. Same thing. Innocent, every damn one of 'em. Not that every damn one of 'em wouldn't of liked to of knocked him off." He shrugged. "Well, more leg work. We've got one lead: the sister says she saw a strange man around the back of Freeman's house a

half-hour before he got it."
"Got a description?"
"Partial." He turned to the coding clerk. "Ready, Mac?" "All set. Shoot."
"Medium height. Black shoes, blue suit. No tie. Wedding ring. Black hair, combed straight back. Clean-shaven. Warts on hands and back of neck. Slight limp."
The clerk, expressionless, punched keys as he talked.
"Dinga-dinga-dinga-ding!" went the machine, and out came a card.
"Herbert J. van Antwerp," said Mac. "Forty-nine fifty-six Collester Boulevard."
"Nice work," said the sergeant. He picked up a microphone. "Car 57, car 57 - proceed to . . ."
As Paul walked into the bright sunlight of the street, a Black Maria, its siren silent, its tires humming the song of new rubber on hot tar, turned into the alleyway that ran behind the station house.
Paul peered curiously at it as it stopped by a barred door.
A policeman dismounted from the back of the shiny black vehicle and waved a riot gun at Paul. "All right, all right, no loitering there!"
Paul started to move on, lingering an instant longer for a glimpse of the prisoner, who sat deep in the wagon's dark interior, misty, futile, between two more men with riot guns.
"Go on, beat it!" shouted the policeman at Paul again.

Paul couldn't believe that the man would actually loose his terrible hail of buckshot on a loiterer, and so loitered a moment longer. His awe of the riot gun's yawning bore was tempered by his eagerness to see someone who had made a worse botch of getting along in society than he had.
The iron door of the station house clanged open, and three more armed policemen waited to receive the desperado. The prospect of his being at large in the alley for even a few seconds was so harrowing, seemingly, that the policeman who had been badgering Paul now gave his full attention to covering the eight or ten square feet the prisoner would cross in an instant. Paul saw his thumb release the safety catch by the trigger guard.
"All righty, no funny stuff, you hear?" said a nervous voice in the wagon. "Out you go!"
A moment later, Doctor Fred Garth, wearing a badly torn Blue Team shirt, unshaven, his eyes wide, emerged into the daylight, manacled and sneering.
Before Paul could believe in the senseless scene, his old tent- and teammate, his buddy, the man next in line for Pittsburgh, was inside.
Paul hurried around to the front, and back into the office where he'd filled out the papers and turned in his credentials.
The sergeant looked up at him superciliously. "Yes?" "Doctor Garth - what's he doing here?" said Paul. "Garth? We got no Garth here."
"I saw them bring him in the back door."
"Naah." The sergeant went back to his reading. "Look - he's one of my best friends."

"Should of stuck with your dog and your mother," said the sergeant without looking up. "Beat it."
Bewildered, Paul wandered back to the street, left his old car parked in front of the station house, and walked up the hill to the main street of Homestead, to the saloon at the foot of the bridge.
The town hall clock struck four. It might have struck midnight or seven or one, for all the difference it made to Paul. He didn't have to be anywhere at any time any more - ever, he supposed. He made up his own reasons for going somewhere, or he went without reasons. Nobody had anything for him to do anywhere. The economy was no longer interested. His card was of interest now only to the police machines, who regarded him, the instant his card was introduced, with instinctive distrust.
The hydrant was going as usual, and Paul joined the crowd. He found himself soothed by the cool spray from the water. He waited with eagerness for the small boy to finish fashioning his paper boat, and enjoyed the craft's jolting progress toward certain destruction in the dark, gurgling unknown of the storm sewer.
"Interesting, Doc?"
Paul turned to find Alfy, the television shark, at his elbow. "Well! Thought you were at the Meadows."
"Thought you were. How's the lip?"
"Healing. Tender."
"If it's any consolation, Doc, the bartender's still sneezing."
"Good, wonderful. Did you get fired?"
"Didn't you know? Everybody got sacked, the whole service staff, after that tree

business." He laughed. "They're doing their own cooking, making their own beds, raking the horseshoe pits, and all, all by theirselves."
"Everybody?"
"Everybody below works manager."
"They're cleaning their own latrines, too?"
"The dumb bunnies, Doc, with I.Q.'s under 140."
"What a thing. Still play games, do they?"
"Yep. Last I heard, Blue was way out ahead."
"You don't mean it!"
"Yeah, they were so ashamed of you, they just about killed theirselves to win."
"And Green?"
"Cellar."
"In spite of Shepherd?"
"You mean Jim Thorpe? Yeah, he entered everything, and tried to make every point."
"So -"
"So nobody made any points. Last I heard, his team was trying to convince him he had virus pneumonia and ought to spend a couple of days in the infirmary. He's got something, that's for sure." Alfy looked at his watch. "Say, there's some chamber music on channel seven. Care to play?"
"Not with you."

"Just for the hell of it. No money. I'm just getting checked out on chamber music. A whole new field. C'mon, Doc, we'll learn together. You watch the cello and bass, and I'll watch the viola and violin. O.K.? Then we'll compare notes and pool our knowledge."
"I'll buy you a beer. How's that?"
"That's good; that's very good."
In the bar's damp twilight, Paul saw a teen-ager looking at him hopefully from a booth. Before him, on the table top, were three rows of matches: three in the first row, five in the second, seven in the third.
"Hello," said the young man uneasily, hopefully. "Very interesting game here. The object of the game is to make the other guy take the last match. You can take as many or as few as you want from any given row at each turn."
"Well -" said Paul.
"Go ahead," said Alfy.
"For two dollars?" said the youngster nervously.
"All right, for two." Paul took a match from the longest row.
The youngster frowned and looked worried, and countered. Three moves later, Paul left him looking disconsolately at the last match. "Goddammit, Alfy," he said miserably, "look at that. I lost."
"This is your first day!" said Alfy sharply. "Don't get discouraged. All right, so you lost. So you're just starting out." Alfy clapped the boy on the shoulder. "Doc, this is my kid brother, Joe. He's just starting out. The Army and the Reeks and Wrecks are hot for his body, but I'm trying to set him up in business for hisself instead. We'll see how this match business works out, and if it doesn't, we'll think

of something else."
"I used to play it in college," said Paul apologetically. "I've had a lot of experience."
"College!" said Joe, awed, and he smiled and seemed to feel better. "Jesus, no wonder." He sighed and sat back, depressed again. "But I don't know, Alfy - I'm about ready to throw in the towel. Let's face it, I haven't got the brains." He lined up the matches again, and picked at them, playing a game with himself. "I work at it, and I just don't seem to get any better at it."
"Sure you work!" said Alfy. "Everybody works at something. Getting out of bed's work! Getting food off your plate and into your mouth's work! But there's two kinds of work, kid, work and hard work. If you want to stand out, have something to sell, you got to do hard work. Pick out something impossible and do it, or be a bum the rest of your life. Sure, everybody worked in George Washington's time, but George Washington worked hard. Everybody worked in Shakespeare's time, but Shakespeare worked hard. I'm who I am because I work hard."
"O.K., O.K., O.K.," said Joe. "Me, Alfy, I haven't got the brains, the eye, the push. Maybe I better go down to the Army."
"You can change your name before you do, kid, and don't bother me again," said Alfy tensely. "Anybody by the name of Tucci stands on his own two feet. It's always been that way, and that's the way it's always going to be."
"O.K.," said Joe, coloring. "Awri. So I give it a try for a couple more days."
"O.K.!" said Alfy. "See that you do."
As Alfy hurried to the television set, Paul stayed at his side. "Listen, do you happen to know who Fred Garth is?"
"Garth?" He laughed. "I didn't at first, but I sure as hell do now. He's the one

that ringbarked the oak." "No!"
"Yep. And they never even thought of questioning him. He was on the committee that was supposed to do the questioning."
"How'd they catch him?"
"Gave hisself away. When the tree surgeon got there to patch up the tree, Garth tossed his tools in the drink."
"Alfy!" said the bartender. "You missed the first number."
Alfy pulled up a bar stool.
Paul sat down next to him and engaged the bartender in conversation. Their talk was disjointed, as Alfy kept the man busy twisting the television set's volume knob.
"Ever see Finnerty around?" said Paul. "The piano player?"
"Yeah."
"What if I have?"
"I'd just like to see him, is all. A friend of mine."
"Lot's of people'd like to see Finnerty these days."
"Uh-huh. Where's he keep himself?"
The bartender looked at him appraisingly. "Nobody sees Finnerty these days."

"Oh? He's not living with Lasher any more?"
"Full of questions today, aren't you? Nobody sees Lasher these days." "I see." Paul didn't. "They leave town?"
"Who knows? Come on, I haven't got all day. What'll it be?" "Bourbon and water."
The bartender mixed the drink, set it before Paul, and turned his back.
Paul drank the health of his hostile or apathetic companions in the new life he'd chosen, coughed, smiled, smacked his lips judiciously, trying to determine what wasn't quite right about the drink, and fell senseless from the barstool.
CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT
"From Blue Cayuga," piped the young voices in the autumn evening -
"From hill and dell,
Far rings the story of the glory of Cornell -"
Doctor Harold Roseberry, PE-002, laid two documents side by side on the

naked, waxy expanse of the top of his rosewood desk. The desk, big enough for a helicopter to land on, was a gift from the Cornell alumni, and a silver plate on one corner said so. Justification of the lavish gift was inlaid in precious woods on the desk top: the football scores run up by the Big Red during the past five seasons. The why and wherefore of this object, at least, would leave no questions in the minds of future archæologists.
"From East and West the crashing echoes answering call," cried the young voices, and Doctor Roseberry found it extremely difficult to concentrate on the two documents before him: a memo from the dean of the School of Arts and Sciences, a quaint, antique man in a quaint, antique part of the university; and a five-year-old letter from a carping alumnus who objected to the deportment of the team when off the playing field. The memo from the dean said that a Mr. Ewing J. Halyard had arrived in town in order to show the university to the Shah of Bratpuhr, and, incidentally, to make up a seventeen-year-old credit deficiency in physical education. The memo asked that Doctor Roseberry assign one of his staff to the chore of giving Halyard the final physical-education tests the next morning.
"Cornell victorious! The champions of all!"
came the voices.
Doctor Roseberry was inclined to react ironically to the last line of the song. "Certainly, victorious last year, four years afore that," he muttered in his pregnant solitude. But here was another year that might not look so hot inlaid in rosewood. "Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow," he said wearily. Every coach in the Ivy League was out to knock him down to a PE-003 again, and two losses would do it. Yale and Penn were loaded. Yale had floated a bond to buy the whole Texas A&M backfield, and Penn had bought Breslaw from Wisconsin for $43,000.

Roseberry groaned. "How the hell long they think a man can play college football?" he wanted to know. Six years before, Cornell had bought him from Wabash College, and asked him to list his idea of a dream team. Then, by God they'd bought it for him.
"But what the hell they think they bought?" he asked himself. "Sumpin' made outa steel and see-ment? Supposed to last a lifetime, is it?" They hadn't bought him so much as a water boy since, and the average age of the Big Red was now close to thirty-one.
"Far above Cayuga's waters, With its waves of blue, Stands our noble Alma Mater, Glorious to view -"
came the voices.
"Certainly it's glorious," said Doctor Roseberry. "Who the hell you figure paid for it?" In its first two years the football team had paid for itself. In the next three, it had paid for a new chemistry building, a heat and power laboratory, a new administration building for the Agricultural Engineering Department, and four new professorial chairs: the Philosophy of Creative Engineering, Creative Engineering History, Creative Public Relations for Engineers, and Creative Engineering and the Captive Consumer.
Roseberry, who wasn't expected to pay any attention to the academic side of the university, had nonetheless kept a careful accounting of all these improvements, glorious to view, that had been added since he and his football team had arrived

far above Cayuga's waters. In anticipation of a poor season, he was roughing out in his mind a polemic letter to the alumni, in which the academic expenditures would figure prominently. He had the first line of the letter, following the salutation, "Sportsmen," already perfected, and enjoyed imagining it written out in capitals:
"IS THE FOOTBALL BUSINESS AT CORNELL GOING TO BE RUN ON A BUSINESS-LIKE BASIS, OR IS THE BIG RED GOING TO BE BLED WHITE?"
And then the next sentence sprang inspirationally to mind: "IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS, NOT ONE CENT HAS BEEN REINVESTED IN THE BUSINESS, NOT ONE CENT LAID ASIDE FOR DEPRECIATION!"
He saw now that the whole thing would have to be in caps. The situation called for a letter with real punch.
The telephone rang.
"Doctor Roseberry speakin'."
"This is Buck Young, Doc. Note here says you wanted me to call." The husky voice was tinged with uneasiness, just as Roseberry had hoped it would be. He could imagine that Buck had sat by the phone with the note in his hand for several minutes before he'd dialed. Now that Buck had gone this far, Roseberry told himself, he'd go the rest of the way too.
"Yeah, yeah," said Roseberry, smiling captivatingly. "Bucky boy, how are you?"
"Fine. What's on your mind?"
"Maybe I should ask what's on yours."
"Thermodynamics. Stress analysis. Fluid flow. Differential equations."

"Aaah," said Roseberry, "why'n't you loosen up and have a beer with me down at The Dutch? You hear the news I got, I think maybe you'll get something else on your mind."
"Cheer, cheer, here we are again To cheer with all our might -"
sang the voices, and Doctor Roseberry waited impatiently for the racket to stop. If they had to have a football rally, he wished they'd hold it somewhere where it wouldn't bother him and his team. That was another thing: Cornell was so cheap, they quartered their athletes on the campus rather than setting up a separate establishment away from all the student racket. "Wait'll they shut up, Bucky boy, and I can hear myself think."
"Cheer, cheer, here we are again, To cheer for the Red and White!"
Either Cornell was going to get progressive, or they could find themselves another coach, Roseberry told himself. Now, Tennessee - there was a progressive setup. They kept their team in Miami Beach, and no wonder Milankowitz went there for $35,000, after he turned down Chicago for $40,000. "O.K., Bucky, I can hear again. What about I meet you down at The Dutch for a couple of quick ones in fifteen minutes?"
The voice was faint, reluctant. "Just for half an hour."

Doctor Roseberry climbed into his black convertible in the team parking lot, and drove over to the Delta Upsilon fraternity house, on whose lawn he'd first spotted Buck Young playing interfraternity football. There, Young had done things for Delta Upsilon for nothing that any college in the country would have considered a steal at $50,000 a year.
That had been last fall, and D.U. had eked out the interfraternity football championship with 450 points to their opponents' six. Young had scored 390 of the points, and had thrown the passes for the other 54, the remaining touchdown being accounted for by a George Ward, whose name had somehow burned itself into Roseberry's memory along with all of the other statistics.
But Young had said firmly, when Roseberry had approached him, that he played football for fun, and that he wanted to be an engineer. A year ago, with the Big Red by far the biggest thing in the East, with the Yale and Penn alumni still to mobilize their economic resources, Roseberry could afford to be amused by Young's preference for a career in engineering. Now nothing was amusing, and Roseberry saw Young as his one chance to remain a PE-002 under the fouled-up Cornell football economics. He would sell a couple of supernatural linemen to Harvard, who would buy anything that was cheap, and use the proceeds to buy himself the services of Young at far below their value on the open market.
The Dutch, its paneling antiqued by the condensation from breaths of generations of adolescent alcoholics, was packed and noisy, and in almost every hand was the drink fashionable that season, benedictine and Pluto water, with a sprig of mint.
Doctor Roseberry was cheered and toasted by the children as he entered. He grinned, and colored becomingly, and inwardly demanded of himself and history, "What the hell these baby engineers got to do'th me, for chrissakes?" He pushed his way through the crowd, which claimed him for reasons not at all clear, to a dark corner booth, where Purdy and McCloud, the linemen whom he intended to sell to Harvard, were nursing the one beer a night apiece permitted during training. They were talking quietly, but darkly, and, as Doctor Roseberry approached, they

looked up, but didn't smile.
"Evenin' boys," said Doctor Roseberry, sitting down on the small ledge not occupied by McCloud's backside, and keeping his eyes on the door through which Buck Young would be coming.
They nodded, and went on with their conversation. "No reason," said McCloud, "why a man can't play college ball till he's forty, if he takes good care of hisself." McCloud was thirty-six.
"Sure," said Purdy gravely, "a older man's got a certain matoority you don't find in the young ones." Purdy was thirty-seven.
"Look at Moskowitz," said McCloud.
"Yup. Forty-three, and still goin' strong. No reason why he shou'n't keep goin' until he's fifty. No reason why most men shou'n't."
"Bet I could go to the Reeks and Wrecks now and put together a Ivy League championship team out of guys past forty who're s'posed to be through."
"Planck," said Purdy. "Poznitsky."
"McCarren," said McCloud, "Mirro, Mellon. Ain't that right, Doc?" McCloud asked Roseberry the question casually.
"Yup, guess so. Hope so. Better. Kind of outfit I've got to work with."
"Um," said McCloud. He stared down into his beer, finished it off with a flourish, and looked plaintively at Roseberry. "O.K. if I have one more short one tonight?"
"Sure - why the hell not?" said Roseberry. "I'll even buy it."
McCloud and Purdy looked distressed at this, and both, on second thought,

figured they'd better keep in good shape for the important Big Red season ahead.
Roseberry offered no reply to this clumsy gambit.
"Better not hit that stuff too hard," said a leering student, pointing to the two bottles of beer. "Not if Cornell's going to go on ruling the Ivy League, you better not, boys."
Purdy glowered at him, and the youngster retreated into the crowd. "One minute, they ask you should go out and bust both arms and legs so's they can say how tough Cornell is. Then the next minute, they want you should live like a goddam missionary," said Purdy bitterly.
"Like in the Army," said McCloud.
The subject reminded Doctor Roseberry of the letter and the memo he'd been reading in his office, and he patted his breast pocket to make sure he still had them.
"Like in the Army," said Purdy, "only no pension."
"Sure, give the best years of your life to some college, and what the hell they do when you're through? Toss you right into the Reeks and Wrecks. The hell with you, buddy."
"Look at Kisco," said Purdy.
"Died for dear old Rutgers, and his widow's got what?"
"Nuttin'! Nuttin' but a chenille R she can use as a bath mat, and a government pension."
"Shoulda saved his money!" said Doctor Roseberry impatiently. "He was makin' more'n the college president. How come he was so poor? Whose fault that?"

Purdy and McCloud looked down at their big hands and fidgeted. Both of them, in their prime, had made as much as the late Buddy Kisco, who had actually died for Rutgers. But both were likewise broke - forever broke, building flamboyant mansions in Cayuga Heights, buying new cars every six months, dressing expensively. . . .
"That's the thing," said McCloud plaintively. "A athalete has to keep up appearances. Sure, people think a athalete makes plenty, and he do on paper. But people never stop to think he's allus gotta keep up a expensive front."
Purdy leaned forward in excited agreement. "For who?" he demanded rhetorically. "For the athalete?"
"For Cornell!" said McCloud.
"Damn right!" said Purdy, leaning back, satisfied.
Buck Young, tall, massive, shy, appeared in the doorway and looked around the room. Doctor Roseberry stood and waved, and left Purdy and McCloud to join him at the door.
"Bucky boy!"
"Doc." Buck seemed somewhat ashamed to be seen with the coach, and looked hopefully at a vacant booth. He was behaving as though he were keeping an appointment with a dope peddler, and, in a way, Doctor Roseberry reflected cheerfully, he was.
"Buck, I'm not going to waste any words, because there isn't much time. This offer won't be open many more days. Maybe it'll be off tomorrow. It's all up to the alumni," he lied.
"Uh-huh," said Buck.
"I'm prepared to offer you thirty thousand, Buck, six hundred a week, all year

round, startin' tomorrow. What do you say?"
Young's Adam's apple bobbed. He cleared his throat. "Every week?" he asked faintly.
"That's how much we think of you, boy. Don't sell yourself short."
"And I could study, too? You'd give me time off for classes and study?"
Roseberry frowned. "Well - there's some pretty stiff rulings about that. You can't play college football, and go to school. They tried that once, and you know what a silly mess that was."
Buck ran his blunt fingers through his hair. "Golly, I dunno. That's a lot of money, but my family'd be awful surprised and disappointed. I mean -"
"I'm not askin' it for me, Buck! Think of your schoolmates. You want them to lose a game this year?"
"No," he murmured. "Thirty-five grand, Buck." "Jesus, I -"
"I have heard every word you've said," said a young redhead thickly. He wasn't drinking benedictine and Pluto water, but sloshed instead a puddle of whisky and water on the table as he sat down by Buck, facing Doctor Roseberry, uninvited. Beneath his open-necked shirt the red of a Meadows T-shirt showed plainly. "Heard it all," he said, and he laid his hand on Buck's shoulder gravely. "Here you are at a crossroads, my boy. You're lucky. Not many crossroads left for people. Nothing but one-way streets with cliffs on both sides."
"Who the hell are you?" said Doctor Roseberry irritably.

"Doctor, Doctor, mind you, Edmond L. Harrison of the Ithaca Works. Call me Ed, or pay me five dollars."
"Let's get away from this lush," said Doctor Roseberry.
Harrison banged on the table with his fist. "Hear me out!" He appealed to Buck, whose exit he blocked. "The eminent Doctor Roseberry represents one road, and I the other. I am you, if you continue on your present course, five years from now."
His eyes were half closed, and after the fashion of benign drunks he seemed on the verge of tears, so powerfully was he compelled to love and help others. "If you are good," he said, "and if you are thoughtful, a fractured pelvis on the gridiron will pain you less than a life of engineering and management. In that life, believe me, the thoughtful, the sensitive, those who can recognize the ridiculous, die a thousand deaths."
Doctor Roseberry leaned back and folded his hands across his flat, hard belly. If he'd thought of it, he would have hired a professional actor to do what Doctor Harrison was doing for nothing. "How do you mean?" he asked helpfully.
"The best man I knew at the Meadows - "
"The Meadows?" said Buck in awe.
"The Meadows," said Harrison, "where the men at the head of the procession of civilization demonstrate in private that they are ten-year-olds at heart, that they haven't the vaguest notion of what they're doing to the world."
"They're opening new doors at the head of the procession!" said Buck hotly, shocked by the blunt, near-sabotage talk, and now fighting it, like the good citizen he was. He'd learned the resounding phrase about opening doors in a freshman orientation program, at which a Doctor Kroner had been the impressive chief speaker.
"Slamming doors in everybody's face," said Harrison. "That's what they're

doing."
"Keep your voice down," warned Doctor Roseberry.
"I don't care," said Harrison stridently, "not after what they did to the only grownup there. They gave Proteus the sack, that's what they did."
"Proteus has been dead for years," said Buck, sure Harrison was a fake.
"His son, his son, Paul," said Harrison. "So let me say, my boy, go out and make your money on the gridiron, with blood and sweat and sinew. There's honor and glory in that - a little, anyway - and you'll never hate yourself. But keep the hell away from the head of the procession, where you'll get it in the neck if you can't get a lump in your throat over the ups and downs of a bunch of factories." He attempted to rise, failed once, made it the next time. "And now, goodbye."
"Where are you going?" said Doctor Roseberry. "Stick around, stick around."
"Where? First to shut off that part of the Ithaca works for which I am responsible, and then to an island, perhaps, a cabin in the north woods, a shack in the Everglades."
"And do what?" said Buck, baffled.
"Do?" said Harrison. "Do? That's just it, my boy. All of the doors have been closed. There's nothing to do but to find a womb suitable for an adult, and crawl into it. One without machines would suit me particularly."
"What have you got against machines?" said Buck.
"They're slaves."
"Well, what the heck," said Buck. "I mean, they aren't people. They don't suffer. They don't mind working."

"No. But they compete with people."
"That's a pretty good thing, isn't it - considering what a sloppy job most people do of anything?"
"Anybody that competes with slaves becomes a slave," said Harrison thickly, and he left.
A dark man, dressed like a student, but much older-looking, set down his untouched benedictine and Pluto water on the bar, studied the faces of Roseberry and Young as though memorizing them, and followed Harrison out of the building.
"Let's go out in the lobby, where we can talk," said Roseberry, as a cycle of songs began.
"Cheer, cheer, here we are again," cried the young voices, and Young and Roseberry moved into the lobby.
"Well?" said Doctor Roseberry. "I -"
"Doctor Roseberry, I believe?"
Roseberry looked up at the intruder, a sandy-mustached gentleman, in a violet shirt, matching boutonniere, and a gay waistcoat contrasting with his dark suit. "Yes?"
"My name is Halyard, E. J., of the State Department. And these gentlemen here are the Shah of Bratpuhr, and his interpreter, Khashdrahr Miasma. We were just leaving for the president's house, and I happened to spot you."
"Charmed," said Doctor Roseberry.

"Brahous brahouna, bouna saki," said the Shah, bowing slightly. Halyard laughed nervously. "Guess we have a little business tomorrow
morning, eh?"
"Oh," said Roseberry, "you're the one - the one for the phys. ed. finals."
"Yes, yes indeed. Haven't had a cigarette in two weeks. Will it take long?"
"No, I don't think so. Fifteen minutes ought to do the trick."
"Oh? That short a time, eh? Well, well." The tennis shoes and shorts he'd bought that afternoon wouldn't get much wear in that time.
"Oh, 'scuse me, gents," said Roseberry. "This here's Buck Young. Student just now."
"Lakki-ti Takaru?" the Shah asked Buck. " 'Like it here?' " translated Khashdrahr. "Yessir. Very much, sir, your highness."
"A lot different from my day," said Halyard. "By gosh, we had to get up every morning bright and early, climb the hill in all kinds of weather, and sit there and listen to some of the dullest lectures you ever heard of. And, of course, some poor fish would have to get up in front of us and talk every day of the week, and chances are he wasn't much of a speaker, and anyway no showman."
"Yes, the professional actors and the television circuits are a big improvement, sir," said Buck.
"And the exams!" said Halyard. "Pretty cute, you know, punching out the answers, and then finding out right off if you passed or flunked. Boy, believe me, we used to have to write our arms off, and then we'd have to wait weeks for a prof

to grade the exams. And plenty of times they made bad mistakes on the grades." "Yessir," said Buck politely.
"Well, I'll see one of your assistants tomorrow, eh?" said Halyard to Roseberry. "I intend I should give you the tests personal," said Roseberry.
"Well! I guess that's an honor, with the season just beginning."
"Sure," said Roseberry. He reached into his breast pocket and produced the letter and the memo. He handed the letter to Halyard. "Here's something you should oughta read before you come."
"Fine, thanks." Halyard took it, supposing it was a list of the things he would have to do. He smiled warmly at Roseberry, who had given every indication that Halyard would be given an exceedingly simple and short series of tests. A mere fifteen minutes, he'd said. That would do it.
Halyard glanced at the letter, and couldn't imagine what it was all about at first. It was addressed to the president of Cornell, Doctor Albert Herpers, not to him. Moreover, the date on it indicated that it was five years old.
Dear Doctor Herpers: he read -
I had occasion to see the wearers of the Red and White after the Penn game in Philadelphia this Thanksgiving, and I must say I was ashamed to admit to anyone that I had ever come within fifty miles of Ithaca.
I was dining in the Club Cybernetics after the game, when the team, led by this new man, Doctor Roseberry, arrived en masse . . .

The letter went on to describe the bacchanal that followed, with particular emphasis on the crudities of Roseberry's behavior -
while, mind you, all were wearing what I, perhaps in my old-fashioned way, consider sacred, the C of the Big Red. . . .
In view of this, Doctor Herpers, I feel constrained to point out, as a loyal alumnus, that Doctor Roseberry, in his first year with the Big Red, is off to an extremely poor start. In the brief time of his incumbency, I have no doubt that the shockingly public moral turpitude of the team has made a worse name for what I was once proud to claim as my Alma Mater than a lifetime of gridiron victories can possibly offset. . . .
It is my fervent hope that Roseberry will be forced to resign forthwith, or, failing that, that outraged alumni sell him to some Grade C school forthwith.
To this end, I am sending copies of this letter to the Alumni Secretary, to each of the local alumni chapters, to the Trustees, and to the Secretary of Athletics in Washington, D. C.
Very truly yours, Doctor Ewing J. Halyard
"Oh," said Halyard, his poise gone, suddenly looking ridiculous in the clothes that had been high fashion a moment before. "Saw this, did you?"
"Doctor Herpers thought I'd be interested."
A sickly grin framed Halyard's white teeth. "Long time ago, wasn't it, Doctor? Seems like a hundred years."

"Like yesterday."
"Ha ha. Lot of water under the dam since those days, eh?"
The Shah looked questioningly at Khashdrahr for an explanation of what made Halyard so gray suddenly. Khashdrahr shrugged.
"Over the dam," said Buck Young, filling the grim void in the conversation. "Or under the bridge."
"Yes. Quite so," said Halyard hollowly. "Well, best we should go. See you in the morning."
"Wouldn't miss it for the world."
Doctor Roseberry turned back to Buck Young, as Halyard, his face somber, shepherded the Shah and Khashdrahr into the Ithaca night. The Shah was sneezing violently.
"Well, kid," said Roseberry. "What say to thirty-five grand? Yes or no?" "I -"
"Thirty-six."
"Yes," whispered Buck. "Hell yes."
When the two went back into The Dutch to drink to the deal, Purdy and McCloud were still talking gloomily in their dark corner.
"Sure," said Purdy, "Roseberry's a tough guy to work for, but thank God you ain't workin' for Harvard."
McCloud nodded. "Yeah, work there, and 'ey won't letch wear nothin' but dark- gray flannels in the winter, and seersucker in the summer."

They both shuddered, and furtively refilled their glasses from a half-case hidden under the table.
"Wit'out shoulders," said Purdy. CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE
Doctor Paul Proteus, to all practical purposes Mr. Paul Proteus, dreamed of nothing but pleasant things under the benign drug, and spoke simultaneously, without reflection but truthfully, on whatever subject was brought to his attention. The talking he did, the answering of questions, went on as though it were being done by a person hired to represent him, while Paul personally gave his attention to entertaining phantasmagoria within the privacy of his closed eyelids.
"Did you really get fired, or was it a pretense?" said the voice.
"Pretense. Supposed to get into the Ghost Shirt Society and find out what they're up to. Only I quit, and they don't know that, yet." Paul chuckled.
And in his dream, Paul danced powerfully, gracefully, to the hectic rhythms of the Building 58 Suite.
"Furrazz-ow-ow-ow-ow-ow-ak! ting!" went lathe group three, and Paul leapt and spun among the machines, while, pink amid the gray machines in the building's center, Anita lay invitingly in a rainbow-colored nest of control wires. Her part in the dance called for her only to lie there motionless, while Paul approached and fled, approached and fled in frenzied, random action.

"Why are you quitting?"
"Sick of my job."
"Because what you were doing was morally bad?" suggested the voice.
"Because it wasn't getting anybody anywhere. Because it was getting everybody nowhere."
"Because it was evil?" insisted the voice.
"Because it was pointless," said Paul's representative, as Kroner joined the ballet, ponderously, earthbound, with a methodical marching to the voices of the punch presses in the basement: "Aw-grumph! tonka-tonka. Aw-grumph! tonka- tonka . . ."
Kroner looked lovingly at Paul, caught him as he bounded past, and carried him in a bearlike embrace toward Anita. Paul squirmed free in the nick of time, and off he went again, leaving Kroner in tears, urging Anita to follow him into the out-of- doors.
"Then you're against the organization now?"
"I'm not with them now."
Shepherd, clumsily but energetically, entered the growing tableau from the basement, choosing as his theme the hoarse voices of the welders: "Vaaaaaaa- zuzip! Vaaaaaaa-zuzip!" Shepherd marked time with one foot, watching Paul's gyrations, another rejection of Kroner, another effort to coax the dead-panned Anita from her nest amid the machines. Shepherd watched with puzzlement and disdain, shrugged, and walked straight to Kroner and Anita. The three settled in the nest of wires, and together followed Paul's movements with baffled, censorious eyes.
Suddenly, a window by which Paul was bounding flew open, and Finnerty's

face was thrust into the opening. "Paul!"
"Yes, Ed?"
"You're on our side now!"
The Building 58 Suite stopped abruptly, and a black curtain fell between Paul and the rest of the cast, save Finnerty.
"Hmmm?" said Paul.
"You're on our side," said Finnerty. "If you're not with them, you're with us!"
Paul's head was aching now, and his lips were dry. He opened his eyes and saw Finnerty's face, gross, caricatured by its closeness.
"With who? Whom?"
"The Ghost Shirt Society, Paul."
"Oh, them. What do they think, Ed?" he asked drowsily. He was on a mattress, he realized, in a chamber whose air was still and damp, dense with the feel of dead mass pressing down from above. "What they think, Ed?"
"That the world should be restored to the people."
"By all means," said Paul, trying to nod. His muscles were only faintly connected to his will, and his will, in turn, was a fuzzy, ineffectual thing. "People oughta get it back."
"You're going to help."
"Yup," murmured Paul. He was in a highly tolerant mood, full of admiration

and well-wishing for anyone with convictions, and cheerfully hors de combat under the influence of the drug. Obviously, he couldn't be expected to do anything. And Finnerty began to fade again, and Paul danced once more in Building 58, danced God knows why, uncertain that there was an audience anywhere to appreciate his exertions.
"What do you think?" he heard Finnerty say.
"He'll do nicely," he heard another voice reply, and he recognized the voice as Lasher's.
"What's a ghost shirt?" murmured Paul between prickling lips.
"Toward the end of the nineteenth century," said Lasher, "a new religious movement swept the Indians in this country, Doctor."
"The Ghost Dance, Paul," said Finnerty.
"The white man had broken promise after promise to the Indians, killed off most of the game, taken most of the Indians' land, and handed the Indians bad beatings every time they'd offered any resistance," said Lasher.
"Poor Injuns," murmured Paul.
"This is serious," said Finnerty. "Listen to what he's telling you."
"With the game and land and ability to defend themselves gone," said Lasher, "the Indians found out that all the things they used to take pride in doing, all the things that had made them feel important, all the things that used to gain them prestige, all the ways in which they used to justify their existence - they found that all those things were going or gone. Great hunters had nothing to hunt. Great fighters did not come back from charging into repeating-arms fire. Great leaders could lead the people nowhere but into death in hopeless attack, or deeper into wastelands. Great religious leaders could no longer show that the old religious beliefs were the way to victory and plenty."

Paul, suggestible under the drug, was deeply disturbed by the plight of the redskins. "Golly."
"The world had changed radically for the Indians," said Lasher. "It had become a white man's world, and Indian ways in a white man's world were irrelevant. It was impossible to hold the old Indian values in the changed world. The only thing they could do in the changed world was to become second-rate white men or wards of the white men."
"Or they could make one last fight for the old values," said Finnerty with relish.
"And the Ghost Dance religion," said Lasher, "was that last, desperate defense of the old values. Messiahs appeared, the way they're always ready to appear, to preach magic that would restore the game, the old values, the old reasons for being. There were new rituals and new songs that were supposed to get rid of the white men by magic. And some of the more warlike tribes that still had a little physical fight left in them added a flourish of their own - the Ghost Shirt."
"Oho," said Paul.
"They were going to ride into battle one last time," said Lasher, "in magic shirts that white men's bullets couldn't go through."
"Luke! Hey, Luke!" called Finnerty. "Stop the mimeo machine a second and come on over here."
Paul heard footsteps shuffling across the damp floor. He opened his eyes to see Luke Lubbock, his features sour with the tragic stoicism of a dispossessed redskin, standing by his bed, wearing a white shirt fringed in an imitation of a buckskin shirt, and decorated with thunderbirds and stylized buffalo worked into the fabric with brightly insulated bits of wire.
"Ug," said Paul.

"Ug," said Luke, without hesitation, deep in his role. "This isn't any joke, Paul," said Finnerty.
"Everything's a joke until the drug wears off," said Lasher. "Does Luke think he's bulletproof?" said Paul.
"It's the symbolism of the thing!" said Finnerty. "Don't you get it yet?" "I expect," said Paul amiably, dreamily. "Sure. You bet. I guess." "What is the symbolism?" asked Finnerty.
"Luke Lubbock wants his buffaloes back."
"Paul - come on, snap out of it!" said Finnerty.
"Okey dokey."
"Don't you see, Doctor?" said Lasher. "The machines are to practically everybody what the white men were to the Indians. People are finding that, because of the way the machines are changing the world, more and more of their old values don't apply any more. People have no choice but to become second-rate machines themselves, or wards of the machines."
"God help us," said Paul. "But, I dunno, this Ghost Shirt thing - it's kind of childish, isn't it? Dressing up like that, and -"
"Childish - like Hitler's Brown Shirts, like Mussolini's Black Shirts. Childish like any uniform," said Lasher. "We don't deny it's childish. At the same time, we admit that we've got to be a little childish, anyway, to get the big following we need."
"Wait until he sits in on some meetings," said Finnerty. "They're like something

out of Alice in Wonderland, Paul."
"All meetings are," said Lasher. "But, by some magic that's beyond my comprehension, meetings get things done. I could do with a little more dignity and maturity in our operations, because those are the things we're fighting for. But first of all we've got to fight, and fighting is necessarily undignified and immature."
"Fight?" said Paul.
"Fight," said Lasher. "And there's hope of putting up a good fight. This business of one set of values being replaced by force by another set of values has come up often enough in history -"
"Among the Indians and the Jews and a lot of other people who've been tyrannized by outsiders," said Finnerty.
"Yes, it's come up often enough for us to make a good guess as to what can happen this time," said Lasher. He paused. "What we can make happen."
"Beat it, Luke," said Finnerty.
"Yessir."
"Paul, are you listening?" said Finnerty. "Yep. Interesting."
"All right," said Lasher, his voice low. "In the past, in a situation like this, if Messiahs showed up with credible, dramatic messages of hope, they often set off powerful physical and spiritual revolutions in the face of terrific odds. If a Messiah shows up now with a good, solid, startling message, and if he keeps out of the hands of the police, he can set off a revolution - maybe one big enough to take the world away from the machines, Doctor, and give it back to the people."
"And you're just the boy to do it, too, Ed," said Paul.

"That's what I thought, too," said Lasher, "at first. Then I realized we could do much better starting off with a name that was already well known."
"Sitting Bull?" said Paul.
"Proteus," said Lasher.
"You don't have to do anything but keep out of sight," said Finnerty. "Everything will be done for you."
"Is being done," said Lasher.
"So you just rest now," said Finnerty gently. "Build up your strength." "I -"
"You don't matter," said Finnerty. "You belong to History now."
A heavy door thumped shut, and Paul knew that he was alone again, and that History, somewhere on the other side of the door, would let him out only when it was good and ready to.
CHAPTER THIRTY
History, personified at this point in the life of Doctor Paul Proteus by Ed Finnerty and the Reverend James J. Lasher, let Paul out of his cell in an old Ilium air-raid shelter only in order for him to eliminate the wastes accrued in the process of his continued existence as an animal. Other signs of his being alive - outcries, protests, demands, profanity - were beneath History's notice until the proper time

came, when the door swung open, and Ed Finnerty ushered Paul into his first meeting of the Ghost Shirt Society.
When Paul was led into the meeting chamber, another segment of the air-raid shelter system, everyone stood: Lasher, at the head of the table, Bud Calhoun, Katharine Finch, Luke Lubbock, Paul's tenant farmer Mr. Haycox, and a score of others, whose names Paul didn't know.
It wasn't a brilliant-looking aggregation of conspirators, on the whole, but a righteous and determined one. Paul supposed that Lasher and Finnerty had gathered the group on the basis of availability and trustworthiness rather than talent, starting, seemingly, with some of the more intelligent regulars at the saloon at the foot of the bridge. While the group was predominantly composed of Iliumites, Paul learned, every region of the country was represented.
Amid the mediocrity was a scattering of men who radiated a good deal of competence and, incidentally, prosperity, who seemed, like Paul, in the act of deserting a system that had treated them very well indeed.
As Paul studied these interesting exceptions, he looked at one of the seedier members adjacent, and was surprised by another familiar face - that of Professor Ludwig von Neumann, a slight, disorderly old man, who had taught political science at Union College in Schenectady until the Social Sciences Building had been torn down to make space for the new Heat and Power Laboratory. Paul and von Neumann had known each other slightly as members of the Ilium Historical Society, before the Historical Society Building had been torn down to make room for the new Ilium Atomic Reactor.
"Here he is," said Finnerty proudly.
Paul was given a polite round of applause. The expressions of the applauders were somewhat chilly, giving Paul to understand that he could never really be a full partner in their enterprise, since he had not been with them from the beginning.

The only exceptions to this snobbery were Katharine Finch, formerly Paul's secretary, and Bud Calhoun, both of whom seemed as amiable and unchanged as though they were lounging in Paul's outer office at the Works in the old days. Bud, Paul reflected, moved from situation to situation in the protective atmosphere of his imagination, while Katharine was similarly insulated by her adoration for Bud.
The formality of the meeting, the purposefulness in the faces, bluffed Paul into holding his peace for the moment. The chair on Lasher's left was pulled out for him, and Finnerty took the chair on Lasher's right.
As Paul sat down, he noted that only Luke Lubbock wore a ghost shirt, and he supposed that Luke couldn't accomplish anything without a uniform of some sort.
"Meeting of the Ghost Shirt Society will come to order," said Lasher.
Paul, with a trace of drug-inspired whimsey still in his bloodstream, had expected a show of fraternal-order nonsense, full of quasi-Indian talk. Instead, save for Luke Lubbock's shirt, the meeting belonged very much to the present, a sordid, realistic present, an angry present.
The Ghost Shirt Society, then, was simply a convenient and dramatic title for a businesslike group, a title whose historical roots were of interest principally to Lasher and his disciple Finnerty, who entertained each other with elaborate commentaries on the insufferable status quo. For the rest, simple commentaries, special personal resentments, were reasons enough for joining anything that promised a change for the better. Promised a change for the better, or, Paul amended his thought after looking into some of the eyes, promised some excitement for a change.
What Bud Calhoun was doing here, Paul couldn't imagine, since Bud wasn't at all interested in political action and was without capacity for resentment. As Bud had said of himself, "All Ah want is time an' equipmen' to faht around with, and Ah'm happy as a pig in mud."
"We'll start with you, Z-II," said Lasher, looking at Katharine.

There were circles under Katharine's gentle, wondering eyes, and she looked startled when Lasher called on her, as though Lasher, the meeting, the underground chamber, had suddenly risen about her in her clean, girlish world. "Oh," she said, and rattled the papers on the table before her. "We now have seven hundred and fifty-eight ghost shirts on hand. Our quota for now was a thousand," she said wearily, "but Mrs. Fishbein -"
"No names!" cried several of the members.
"Sorry." She blushed, and referred to her papers. "Er, X-229 came down with cataracts and had to stop the design work. She'll be all right in about six weeks, and can get back to work. Also - there's a shortage of red wire."
"A-12!" said Lasher.
"Yessir," said a swarthy man, and Paul recognized him as one of the Works security guards out of uniform. A-12 wrote down the requisition for red wire, and grinned sheepishly at Paul.
"The shirts that are done are packaged, ready for delivery," said Katharine.
"Very good," said Lasher. "G-17, have you anything to report?"
Bud Calhoun smiled, and leaned back and rubbed his hands. "Comin' along jes' fine. Got two models ready fo' trial out at L-56's place some dark night."
"They'll make it through a works fence all right?" asked Lasher.
"Like a dose of salts," said Bud, "thout trippin' the alarm, neither."
"Who cares if the alarm's tripped or not?" said Finnerty. "The whole country's going to be in an uproar anyway."
"Just th'owed thet in," said Bud. "Also got an idea for a gimmick thet'd feed

powah into the telephone system so it'd knock the guards flat on theah tails when they try to call for he'p." He chuckled merrily.
"Thought we were going to cut the phone wires."
"Could do thet, I s'pose," said Bud.
"What we want from you," said Lasher, "is a design for a good practical, cheap armored car for breaking through the works fences, something our people all over the country ought to be able to knock together in a hurry, with jalopies and sheet metal."
"Hell, we got thet," said Bud. "What Ah'm thinkin' of now, is how we can really fox 'em. See, if we wanted to, Ah figger we could fix a li'l ol -"
"Talk to me about it after the meeting," said Lasher.
Bud looked momentarily unhappy, and then began sketching on a pad before him. Paul saw that he had drawn an armored car, to which he was adding antennae, a radar dome, spikes, flails, and other instruments of terrible slaughter. His eyes met Paul's, and he nodded. "Very in'er'stin' problem," he whispered.
"All right," said Lasher. "Recruiting. D-71 - got something for us?"
"He's in Pittsburgh," said Finnerty.
"That's right," said Lasher. "Forgot. Seeing what he can do with the Moose there."
Luke Lubbock cleared his throat several times, and riffled papers. "Sir, he asked me to give his report, sir."
"Go ahead."
"We got a man in every chapter of the Royal Parmesans. That's fifty-seven

chapters."
"Good men?" said someone.
"You can count on D-71," said Lasher. "Anybody he or his boys recruit gets exactly the same treatment you did - the Mickey, then the questioning under sodium pentathol."
"O.K.," said the questioner. "Just wanted to make sure nobody was getting sloppy at this stage of the game."
"Relax," said Finnerty, very tough, out of the corner of his mouth.
"Him too?" said the questioner, pointing at Paul.
"Him especially," said Lasher. "We know things about Proteus he'd be surprised to know about himself."
"No names," said Paul.
Everybody laughed. It seemed to be a welcome bit of humor that broke the tension of the meeting.
"What's funny?" said Paul. "You're the name," said Lasher. "Now wait, just a minute -"
"What are you worried about? You don't have to do anything," said Finnerty. "What a break, Paul. Wouldn't we like to be able to serve the cause just sitting down here, keeping away from the cops - no responsibilities, no chances to take."
"It's pretty soft all right," said Paul, "but not quite soft enough. I'm walking out. Sorry."

"They'll kill you, Paul," said Finnerty.
"You'd kill him, if you were told to," said Lasher. Finnerty nodded. "That's right, Paul, I would. I'd have to."
Paul sank back into his chair. He found that he wasn't really shocked by the alternatives of life and death just presented to him. It was such a clean-cut proposition, unlike anything he'd ever encountered before. Here were honest-to- God black and white, not at all like the muddy pastels he'd had to choose from while in industry. Having it put like that, Do as we say or get killed, had the same liberating effect as the drug of a few hours ago had had. He couldn't make his own decisions for reasons anybody could understand.
So Paul leaned back in his chair and began to take a real interest in what was going on.
Luke Lubbock finished reading D-71's report on recruiting in the lodges across the country. The goal, to have at least two influential Ghost Shirt Society members in every major social organization in every major industrial city, was about sixty per cent realized.
"S-1 - what have you got to say for yourself?" said Lasher.
"We're getting the word around about who the Leader is," said Finnerty. "Take a few days to see what sort of effect it has."
"Don't see how it could be anything but good," said Lasher.
"Recruiting should really go to town now," said Finnerty.
"What's the score on that television bug?" asked the Works security guard. "Wasn't you going after him personal?"
"Alfy Tucci?" said Finnerty.

"No names!"
"Kick that name around all you want," said Lasher glumly. "He isn't ours."
"That's right," said Finnerty. "He isn't anybody's, and never will be. He never joined anything, his father never joined anything, and his grandfather never joined anything, and if he ever has a son, he'll never join anything either."
"What's his reason?" asked Paul.
"Says it's all he can do to figure out what he represents without trying to represent a thousand other people besides," said Finnerty.
"Are there any conditions under which he'd join?" asked the man who'd been nervous about loose recruiting methods.
"One," said Finnerty. "When everybody looks and thinks exactly the way Alfy Tucci does."
Lasher smiled sadly. "The great American individual," he said. "Thinks he's the embodiment of liberal thought throughout the ages. Stands on his own two feet, by God, alone and motionless. He'd make a good lamp post, if he'd weather better and didn't have to eat. All right, where were we?"
"We got a date yet?" asked Mr. Haycox politely.
"We'll get a date two days before it happens, and no sooner!" said Lasher. "Could I ask a question?" said Paul.
"Don't know why not. I haven't succeeded in heading anybody else off, yet." "What, generally, is supposed to happen on this date?"
"A special meeting of every chapter of every big social organization in the

country, outside of the engineers' and managers', will have been called. At the meetings, our people, big men in the organizations, will tell the members that all over the country men are marching through the streets on their way to wreck the automatic factories and give America back to the people. Then they'll put on their ghost shirts and lead whoever will follow, starting with a few more of our people planted around.
"This is the headquarters group here, but the movement is largely decentralized, with regional and local people responsible for their areas. We give them help on organization and recruiting and objectives and tactics, but, on the big day, the local people will be pretty much on their own. We'd like to have a bigger organization, a more centralized one. But that would lay us that much more open to the police. The way things stand now, the police don't know who we are and what we've got. On paper, we don't look like much. Actually, with our people placed right, we have a tremendous potential in fellow travelers."
"How many do you suppose will follow?" said Paul.
"As many people as are bored to death or sick of things the way they are," said Lasher.
"All of 'em," said Finnerty.
"And then what?" said Paul.
"And then we get back to basic values, basic virtues!" said Finnerty. "Men doing men's work, women doing women's work. People doing people's thinking."
"Which reminds me," said Lasher. "Who's going to do the job on EPICAC?"
"Last I heard D-71 say was, it's between the Moose and the Elks in Roswell who's goin' to do it," said Luke Lubbock.
"Put them both on it," said Lasher. "G-17, any bright ideas on how to knock off EPICAC?"

"Bes' idee," said Bud, "'d be to put some kind of bomb in the coke machines. They got one in every chambah. That way, we'd git all of him, not just part." His hands were working in air, fashioning a booby trap for a coke machine. "See? Take a li'l ol' coke bottle, only fill her full of nitro. Then we run a li'l ol' -"
"All right. Make a sketch and give it to D-17, so he can get it to the right people."
"An' balooooooowie!" said Bud, bringing his fist down on the table. "Great," said Lasher. "Anybody else got anything on his mind?" "What about the Army?" said Paul. "What if they're called out to -"
"Both sides had better throw in the towel if somebody's crazy enough to give them real rifles and ammunition," said Lasher. "Fortunately, I think both sides know that."
"Where we stand now?" asked the nervous man.
"Not bad, not good," said Lasher. "We could put on a pretty good show now, if they forced our hand. But give us two more months, and we'll really have a surprise for them. All right, let's get this meeting over with, so we can all get to work. Transportation?"
On and on the reports went: transportation, communications, security, finance, procurement, tactics . . .
Paul felt as though he'd seen the surface scraped from a clean, straight rafter, and been shown the tunnels and flimsy membranes of a termite metropolis within.
"Public information?" said Lasher.
"We've mailed out warning letters to all the bureaucrats, engineers, and

managers with classification numbers below one hundred," said Professor von Neumann. "Carbon copies to the news service, the radio network, and the television network."
"Damn good letter," said Finnerty.
"Rest of you like to hear it?" said von Neumann. There were nods around the table.
"Countrymen," the professor read -
"Admittedly, we are all in this together. But -
"You, more than any of us, have spoken highly of progress recently, spoken highly of the good brought by great and continued material change.
"You, the engineers and managers and bureaucrats, almost alone among men of higher intelligence, have continued to believe that the condition of man improves in direct ratio to the energy and devices for using energy put at his disposal. You believed this through the three most horrible wars in history, a monumental demonstration of faith.
"That you continue to believe it now, in the most mortifying peacetime in history, is at least disturbing, even to the slow-witted, and downright terrifying to the thoughtful.
"Man has survived Armageddon in order to enter the Eden of eternal peace, only to discover that everything he had looked forward to enjoying there, pride, dignity, self-respect, work worth doing, has been condemned as unfit for human consumption.
"Again, let me say we are all in this together, but the rest of us, for what

we perceive as good, plain reasons, have changed our minds about the divine right of machines, efficiency, and organization, just as men of another age changed their minds about the divine right of kings, and about the divine rights of many other things.
"During the past three wars, the right of technology to increase in power and scope was unquestionably, in point of national survival, almost a divine right. Americans owe their lives to superior machines, techniques, organization, and managers and engineers. For these means of surviving the wars, the Ghost Shirt Society and I thank God. But we cannot win good lives for ourselves in peacetime by the same methods we used to win battles in wartime. The problems of peace are altogether more subtle.
"I deny that there is any natural or divine law requiring that machines, efficiency, and organization should forever increase in scope, power, and complexity, in peace as in war. I see the growth of these now, rather, as the result of a dangerous lack of law.
"The time has come to stop the lawlessness in that part of our culture which is your special responsibility.
"Without regard for the wishes of men, any machines or techniques or forms of organization that can economically replace men do replace men. Replacement is not necessarily bad, but to do it without regard for the wishes of men is lawlessness.
"Without regard for the changes in human life patterns that may result, new machines, new forms of organization, new ways of increasing efficiency, are constantly being introduced. To do this without regard for the effects on life patterns is lawlessness.
"I am dedicated, and the members of the Ghost Shirt Society are dedicated, to bringing this lawlessness to an end, to give the world back to the people. We are prepared to use force to end the lawlessness, if other means fail.

"I propose that men and women be returned to work as controllers of machines, and that the control of people by machines be curtailed. I propose, further, that the effects of changes in technology and organization on life patterns be taken into careful consideration, and that the changes be withheld or introduced on the basis of this consideration.
"These are radical proposals, extremely difficult to put into effect. But the need for their being put into effect is far greater than all of the difficulties, and infinitely greater than the need for our national holy trinity, Efficiency, Economy, and Quality.
"Men, by their nature, seemingly, cannot be happy unless engaged in enterprises that make them feel useful. They must, therefore, be returned to participation in such enterprises.
"I hold, and the members of the Ghost Shirt Society hold:
"That there must be virtue in imperfection, for Man is imperfect, and Man is a creation of God.
"That there must be virtue in frailty, for Man is frail, and Man is a creation of God.
"That there must be virtue in inefficiency, for Man is inefficient, and Man is a creation of God.
"That there must be virtue in brilliance followed by stupidity, for Man is alternately brilliant and stupid, and Man is a creation of God.
"You perhaps disagree with the antique and vain notion of Man's being a creation of God.
"But I find it a far more defensible belief than the one implicit in intemperate faith in lawless technological progress - namely, that man is on earth to create more durable and efficient images of himself, and, hence, to

eliminate any justification at all for his own continued existence. "Faithfully yours,
"Do ctor Paul Proteus."
Professor von Neumann took off his glasses, rubbed his eyes, and stared at a paper clip before him, waiting for someone to say something.
"Yeah," said the transportation chairman tentatively. "Kinda long-haired, though, ain't it?"
"Sounded purty good," said the security chairman, "but shun't there be sumpin' in there 'bout - Well, I'm no good at words, but somebody else could fix it up. I don't know how to say it good, exactly."
"Go on, try," said Finnerty.
"Well, it just don't seem like nobody feels he's worth a crap to nobody no more, and it's a hell of a screwy thing, people gettin' buggered by things they made theirselves."
"That's in there," said Lasher.
Paul coughed politely. "Uh, you want me to sign it?"
Von Neumann looked surprised. "Heavens, they were signed and mailed out hours ago, while you were asleep."
"Thank you."
"You're welcome, Paul," said the professor absently.
"You don't expect that they'll really go along with us on the new controls, do

you?" said the nervous man.
"Not for a minute," said Lasher. "But it will certainly get word around about us. When the big day comes, we want everybody to know that ours is a great, big bandwagon."
"Cops!" cried someone from far away in the network of chambers. Gunfire boomed, echoed and crackled in the distance.
"The west exit!" commanded Lasher.
Papers were snatched from the table, stuffed into envelopes; lanterns were blown out. Paul felt himself swept along through the dark corridors by the fleeing crowd. Doors opened and shut, people stumbled and bumped into pillars and one another, but made no outcry.
Suddenly, Paul realized that the sound of the others' feet had stopped, and that he was following only the echoes of his own. Panting, stumbling in a nightmare of the policemen's echoing shouts and running footfalls, he blundered about the passages and chambers, coming again and again to barriers of dead rock. At last, as he turned away from one of these, he was dazzled by a flashlight beam.
"There's one, Joe. Get him!"
Paul charged past the flashlight, swinging both fists.
Something crashed against the side of his head, and he sprawled on the wet floor.
"Here's one that didn't get away, by God," he heard a voice say. "Really socked him one, didn't you?"
"Don't pay to mess around with no stinking sabotoors, by God."

"Must be one of the small fry, eh?"
"Sure. Whadja expect? You think this was Proteus walking around in little circles all by hisself, like he don't know which way's up? Nossir, boy. Proteus is in the next county by now, lookin' out for his own sweet tail first, last, and always."
"Sabotagin' bastard."
"Yeah. O.K., you, on your feet and shag your tail."
"What happened?" mumbled Paul.
"Police. You just got brained for savin' Proteus' hide. Why'n't you wise up? He's nuts, guy. Hell, he's got it in his head he's gonna be king."
CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE
Paul's cellmate in the basement of police Headquarters was a small, elegant young Negro named Harold, who was in jail for petty sabotage. He had smashed a traffic safety education box - a tape-recording and loudspeaker arrangement - that had been fixed to a lamppost outside his bedroom window.
" 'Look out!' it say. 'don't you go crossin' in the middle of the block!' " said Harold, mimicking the tape recording. "Fo' two years, ol' loudmouth and me done lived together. An' evah last time some'un come on pas', they hits 'at 'lectric eye, and ol' loudmouth, he just naturally gotta shoot off his big ba-zoo. 'don' step out 'tween two parked cars,' he say. No matter who 'tis, no matter what tahm 'tis.

Loudmouth, he don' care. Jus' gotta be sociable. 'Cayful, now! Don' you do this! Don' you do that!' Ol' mangy dog come bah at three in the mornin', and ol' loudmouth jus' gotta get his two cents wuth in. 'If you drahve,' he tells that ol' mangy dog, 'if you drahve, don' drink!' Then an' ol' drunk comes crawlin' along, and ol' gravelthroat tells him it's a city ohdnance ev'y bicycle jus' gotta have a re- flectah on the back."
"How long you in for?" said Paul.
"Fahve days. Judge said Ah could walk raht out. All Ah had to do was say Ah's
sorry. Ah ain' goin' do that, 'cause," said Harold, "Ah ain' sorry."
Paul was glad that Harold was too bound up in his act of integrity to explore Paul's troubles. Not that it would have pained Paul to talk about them, but because they were extraordinarily difficult to describe. His own motivation was obscure, the cast was unwieldy, and, Paul realized, the denouement was still to come. Through all his adventures, he had been a derelict, tossed this way, then that. He had yet to lay a firm hand on the tiller.
The managers and engineers still believed he was their man; the Ghost Shirt Society was just as convinced that he belonged to them, and both had demonstrated that there was no middle ground for him.
When the police had identified Paul, they had been embarrassed by his I.Q., and his rank in the criminal hierarchy: the archcriminal, the would-be king of the saboteurs. There was no comparable rank in the Ilium police force, and the police had, out of humbleness and lifelong indoctrination, sent for inquisitors with adequate classification numbers and I.Q.'s.
Meanwhile, Paul and Harold passed the time of day.
"Ain' a bit sorry," said Harold. "Wha's 'at tap-tap-tappin'?"
The irregular tapping came from the other side of the sheet-metal wall that separated Paul's and Harold's barred cell from the totally enclosed tank for

desperados next door.
Experimentally, Paul tapped on his side.
"Twenty-three - eight-fifteen," came the reply. Paul recognized the schoolboy's code: one for A, two for B . . . "Twenty-three - eight-fifteen" was "Who?"
Paul tapped out his name, and added his own query.
"Seven - one - eighteen - twenty - eight."
"Garth!" said Paul aloud, and he tapped out, "Chin up, boy." An exotic emotion welled up within him, and it took him a moment to understand it. For the first time in the whole of his orderly life he was sharing profound misfortune with another human being. Fate was making him feel a warmth for Garth, the colorless, the nervous, the enervated, that he had never felt for Anita, for Finnerty, for his parents, for anyone. "You fixed the tree?"
"You bet," tapped Garth.
"Why?"
"Boy flunked GCT again. He cracked up."
"Lord! Sorry," tapped Paul.
"Dead weight on world. Useless. Drag."
"Not so."
"But only God can make tree," tapped Garth. "Blessed are fetishists. Inherited earth," tapped Paul. "Rot, corrosion on our side."

"What next for you?" tapped Paul.
Garth tapped out the story of his being discovered as the criminal at the Meadows, of the furor, the threats, the actual tears shed over the wounded oak. He'd been locked up in the Council House, and guarded by dozens of angry, stalwart young engineers and managers. He'd been promised grimly that he would get the book thrown at him - years of prison, fines that would wipe him out.
When the police had arrived on the island to pick him up, they'd caught the hysteria of the brass and had treated Garth like one of the century's most terrible criminals.
"Only when we got back here and they booked me did they wake up," he tapped.
Paul, himself awed by Garth's crime, was puzzled by this twist. "How so?" he tapped.
"Ha!" tapped Garth. "What's my crime?"
Paul laughed wonderingly. "Treeslaughter?" he tapped.
"Attempted treeslaughter," tapped Garth. "Thing's still alive, though probably never have acorns again."
"Proteus!" called the cellblock loudspeaker. "Visitors. Stay where you are, Harold."
"Ain' going nowhere, 'cause Ah ain' sorry," said Harold. " 'Cayful, look out, now. Walk facin' the traffic.' "
The cell door buzzed and opened, and Paul walked to the green door of the visitors' room. The green door opened, whispered shut behind him, and he found himself face to face with Anita and Kroner.

Both were dressed funereally, as though not to compete for glamour with the corpse. Gravely, wordlessly, Anita handed him a carton containing a milkshake and a sheaf of funnypapers. She lifted her veil and pecked him on his cheek.
"Paul, my boy," rumbled Kroner. "It's been hard, hasn't it? How are you, my boy?"
Paul stepped back out of reach of the big, sapping, paternal hands. "Fine, thanks."
"Congratulations, Paul, darling," said Anita, her voice tiny.
"For what?"
"She knows, my boy," said Kroner. "She knows you're a secret agent."
"And I'm awfully proud of you."
"When do I get out?"
"Right away. Just as soon as we can transcribe what you found out about the Ghost Shirts, who they are, how they work," said Kroner.
"Home is all ready, Paul," said Anita. "I let the maid off, so we could have an old-fashioned American homecoming."
Paul could see her creating this old-fashioned atmosphere - putting a drop of Tabu on the filter of the electronic dust precipitator, setting the clockwork on the master control panel, which would thaw a steak dinner and load it into the radar stove at the proper moment, and turn on the television just as they crossed the threshold. Goaded by a primitive and insistent appetite, Paul gave her offer cautious consideration. He was pleased to find a higher order of human need asserting itself, a need that made him think, if not feel, that he didn't give a damn if he never slept with her again. She seemed to sense this, too, and, for want of any proclivities to interest Paul save sex, her smile of welcome and forgiveness

became a thin and chilling thing indeed.
"Your bodyguards can eat later," said Kroner. He chuckled. "Say, that was quite a letter you wrote for the Ghost Shirts. Sounded wonderful, till you tried to make sense out of it."
"You couldn't?" said Paul.
Kroner shook his head. "Words."
"But it did one thing I'll bet you never expected," said Anita. "Can I tell him - about the new job?"
"Yes, Paul," said Kroner, "the Eastern Division needs a new manager of engineering."
"And you're the man, darling!" said Anita.
"Manager of engineering?" said Paul. "What about Baer?" Somehow Paul had expected the rest of the world to hold firm while his own life went spinning. And of that rest of the world nothing had seemed more firm than the union of Baer, the engineering genius, and Kroner, the rock of faith in technology. "He isn't dead, is he?"
"No," said Kroner sadly, "no, he's still alive - physically, that is." He placed a microphone on a table and moved up a chair, so that Paul might testify in comfort. "Well, who knows - maybe what happened is just as well. Poor Baer never was too stable, you know." He adjusted the microphone. "There. Now, you come over here, Paul, my boy."
"What about Baer?" insisted Paul.
"Oh," sighed Kroner, "he read that fool letter, cleaned out his desk drawers, and walked out. Sit right here, Paul."

The letter, then, had been that good, Paul thought, astonished at the upheaval it had caused in at least one man's life. But then he wondered if the letter hadn't won Baer's support by default of the opposition rather than by its being unanswerable. If someone with quicker wits than Kroner's had been at hand to argue against the letter, perhaps Baer would still have been on the job in Albany. "What was the official reaction to the letter?" asked Paul.
"Classified as top secret," said Kroner, "so anybody trying to circulate it will come under the National Security Act. So don't worry, my boy, it isn't going any farther."
"There is going to be an official reply, isn't there?" said Paul.
"That'd be playing right into their hands, wouldn't it - acknowledging publicly that this Ghost Shirt nonsense is worth the notice of the system? That's exactly what they want to have happen! Come on, now, sit down, and let's get this over with, so you can get home and have a well-earned rest."
Absently, Paul sat down before the microphone, and Kroner switched on the recorder. The official reaction to the Ghost Shirt Society was the official response to so many things: to ignore it, as pressing and complicated matters were ignored in the annual passion plays at the Meadows. It was as though the giving or withholding of official recognition were life or death to ideas. And there was the old Meadows team spirit in the reaction, too, the spirit that was supposed to hold the system together: the notion that the opposition wanted nothing but to win and humiliate, that the object of competition was total victory, with mortifying defeat the only alternative imaginable.
"Now then," said Kroner, "who's really at the head of this monkey business, this Ghost Shirt Society?"
Here it was again, the most ancient of roadforks, one that Paul had glimpsed before, in Kroner's study, months ago. The choice of one course or the other had nothing to do with machines, hierarchies, economics, love, age. It was a purely internal matter. Every child older than six knew the fork, and knew what the good

guys did here, and what the bad guys did here. The fork was a familiar one in folk tales the world over, and the good guys and the bad guys, whether in chaps, breechclouts, serapes, leopardskins, or banker's gray pinstripes, all separated here.
Bad guys turned informer. Good guys didn't - no matter when, no matter what.
Kroner cleared his throat. "I said, 'who's their leader, Paul?' "
"I am," said Paul. "And I wish to God I were a better one."
The instant he'd said it, he knew it was true, and knew what his father had known - what it was to belong and believe.
CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO
"Do you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God?"
"I do," said Paul.
The courtroom television cameras dollied back from his face, to reveal on fifty million television screens the tableau of the Ilium Federal Courtroom's south wall. There, beside and above Doctor Paul Proteus, sat the judge - the Sky Manager, Paul thought. The accused, seated on the witness stand, resembled less a man than an old-fashioned switchboard, with wires running from temperature-, pressure-, and moisture-sensitive instruments at his wrists, armpits, chest, temples, and palms. These, in turn, ran to a gray cabinet under the witness stand, where their findings were interpreted and relayed to a dial a yard in diameter over Paul's head.

The indicator needle on the dial, now pointing straight down, was pivoted so as to swing easily between a black T on the right and a red F on the left, or to a series of arbitrarily calibrated points between them.
Paul had pleaded guilty to conspiring to advocate the commission of sabotage, but was now being tried for treason, three weeks after his arrest.
"Doctor Proteus," said the prosecutor nastily. The television cameras closed in on his sneer and panned to the beads of sweat on Paul's forehead. "You have pleaded guilty to conspiracy to advocate the commission of sabotage, isn't that so?"
"It is." The needle swung toward T, and back to the neutral position, proving that, to the best of Paul's knowledge, it was indeed true.
"This conspiracy, of which you are the head, has as its method, and I quote from your famous letter, 'We are prepared to use force to end the lawlessness, if other means fail.' Those are your words, Doctor?"
"They were written by someone else, but I'm in sympathy with them," said Paul.
"And the word, 'lawlessness,' refers in this case to the present mechanized economy?"
"And future."
"Your goal, as I understand it, was to destroy machines in order that people might take a more personal part in production?"
"Some of the machines."
"What machines, Doctor?"
"That would have to be worked out."

"Oho! You haven't worked that out yet, eh?"
"The first step would be to get Americans to agree that limitations be placed on
the scope of machines."
"You would get this agreement by force, if necessary? You would force this artificial condition, this step backward, on the American people?"
"What distinguishes man from the rest of the animals is his ability to do artificial things," said Paul. "To his greater glory, I say. And a step backward, after making a wrong turn, is a step in the right direction."
The television cameras looked deep into the prosecutor's righteously angry eyes, and backed away, awed at the still unloosed mighty lightning there.
Paul looked too, and saw that the prosecutor knew a great deal more than he had yet revealed. But Paul doubted that the prosecutor knew his secretary was a member of the Ghost Shirt Society, and that Paul's answers, while registering as heartfelt on the lie detector, were a synthesis of the best thinking and phrasing of Lasher, Finnerty, and Professor von Neumann.
Paul was at ease, filled with the euphoria of well-publicized martyrdom for a cause in which he believed. There was no more question in his mind than there was in the prosecutor's that what the Ghost Shirt Society proposed to do was treason. The machines and the institutions of government were so integrated that trying to attack one without damaging the other was like trying to remove a diseased brain in order to save a patient. There would have to be a seizure of power - a benevolent seizure, but a seizure nonetheless.
The only old acquaintances in the room were Kroner, who seemed close to tears, and the fat, pig-eyed Fred Berringer, who was present, Paul supposed, to see the murder of Checker Charley avenged.
Anita hadn't come to court, nor had Shepherd. The two of them, presumably,

were too busy mapping future campaigns to give more than a brief, pious prayer for those caught on the barbed wire of the battlefield of life. There was no need for Anita's coming to court to show the world how she felt about her erring husband. She had made that clear in several interviews with the press. She had married Paul, she'd explained, when she was but a child, and she thanked God things had come to a head while she was still young enough to salvage a little real happiness for herself. "Salvage" seemed a particularly apt term to Paul, with its implications of picking over city dumps and dragging harbor bottoms, for Anita had announced in her next breath that she was going to marry Doctor Lawson Shepherd as soon as she could get a divorce from Paul.
Paul had read her public declarations with ennui, as though they were gossip about someone else, about a television starlet's accusations against a middle-aged producer, say. The thing he concentrated on now, a far more entertaining and consequential enterprise, was the saying of as many poignant, antimachine, pro- Ghost Shirt Society things as he could over a nationwide television network.
"This use of force - you don't regard that as a levying of war against the United States, as treason, Doctor?" wheedled the prosecutor.
"The sovereignty of the United States resides in the people, not in the machines, and it's the people's to take back, if they so wish. The machines," said Paul, "have exceeded the personal sovereignty willingly surrendered to them by the American people for good government. Machines and organization and pursuit of efficiency have robbed the American people of liberty and the pursuit of happiness."
Paul twisted his head, and saw that the needle pointed at T.
"The witness will keep his head to the front," said the Judge sternly. "His concern is with telling the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. The indicator will take care of itself."
The prosecutor turned his back to Paul, as though finished with him, and suddenly wheeled to shake a finger at him. "You are a patriot, are you, Doctor?"

"I try to be."
"Your chief wish is to serve the American people well?"
"It is." Paul was puzzled by this new line of questioning, for which no one had prepared him.
"That is your basic reason for serving as nominal head of the Ghost Shirt Society - to do good?"
"It is," said Paul.
A ripple of whispers and a creaking of chairs under shifting bottoms told Paul that something had gone wrong with the lie detector's indicator.
The judge hammered with his gavel. "Order in the court. The court engineer will please check the tubes and circuits."
The engineer wheeled his steel cart up to the witness stand, and impersonally tested the connections to Paul. He took meter readings at various points along the circuits, slid the gray box out from under the witness stand, took out each of the tubes and tested them, and put everything back together, all in less than two minutes. "Everything in order, your honor."
"The witness will please tell what he considers to be a lie," said the judge.
"Every new piece of scientific knowledge is a good thing for humanity," said Paul.
"Object!" said the prosecutor.
"This is off the record - a test of the instrument," said the judge. "Swung to the left, all righty," said the engineer.

"Now a truth," said the judge.
"The main business of humanity is to do a good job of being human beings," said Paul, "not to serve as appendages to machines, institutions, and systems."
"Swung to T, O.K.," said the engineer, tucking a metal clip just a little deeper into Paul's armpit.
"Now, a half-truth," said the judge.
"I am contented," said Paul.
The spectators chuckled appreciatively. "Square in the middle," said the engineer. "Proceed with the examination," said the judge.
"I will ask the good patriotic doctor the same question," said the prosecutor. "Doctor, your part in this plot to overthrow the - ah - machines: you say it was motivated solely by your desire to serve the American people?"
"I think so."
Again the telltale restlessness in the courtroom.
"You think so, eh?" said the prosecutor. "Do you know where the needle pointed on that one, Doctor, patriot, latter-day Patrick Henry?"
"No," said Paul uncomfortably.
"Squarely between T and F, Doctor. Apparently you're not sure. Perhaps we can dissect this half-truth and remove from it a whole one - like removing a tumor."
"Um."

"Could it be, Doctor, that this hate of what you describe as an injustice to humanity is in fact a hate or something a good bit less abstract?"
"Maybe. I don't quite follow you."
"I'm talking about your hate for someone, Doctor." "I don't know who you're talking about."
"The needle says you do know, Doctor - that you do know your red-white-and- blue patriotism is really an expression of hate and resentment - hate and resentment for one of the greatest true patriots in American history, your father!"
"Nonsense!"
"The needle says you lie!" The prosecutor turned away from Paul in seeming disgust. "Ladies and gentlemen of the jury and the television audience: I submit that this man before you is little more than a spiteful boy, to whom this great land of ours, this great economy of ours, this civilization of ours, has become a symbol of his father! A father whom, subconsciously, he would have liked to destroy!
"A father, ladies and gentlemen of the jury and the television audience, to whom we are all in debt for our lives, for it was he, more than any other American, who mustered the forces of know-how, and brought civilization to victory!
"But this boy chose to resent, to hate this brilliant apparition on the pages of history, out of whose loins he had sprung. And now, as a man, he has transferred this hate to what might very well serve as a symbol for his father, your land, ladies and gentlemen of the jury and the television audience, and mine.
"Call it Oedipus complex, if you will. He's a grown man now, and I call it treason! Deny it, Doctor, deny it!
"Deny it," he said again, his voice little more than a whisper.

The cameras about-faced, and closed in on Paul like dogs closing in on a coon shot from a tree.
"Apparently I can't deny it," said Paul. He looked down helplessly, wonderingly, at the wires monitoring every reflex God had given him with which to defend himself. A moment before, he had been a glib mouthpiece for a powerful, clever organization. Now, suddenly, he was all alone, dealing with a problem singularly his own.
"If my father were a petshop proprietor," he said at last, "I suppose I would be a subconscious dog poisoner."
The cameras dollied back and forth impatiently, panned across the spectators, glanced at the judge, and returned to Paul.
"But, even if there weren't this unpleasant business between me and the memory of my father, I think I would believe in the arguments against the lawlessness of the machines. There are men who don't hate their fathers, so far as I know, who believe in the arguments. What the hate does, I think, is to make me not only believe, but want to do something about the system. Does the needle agree?"
A number of spectators nodded.
"Good. So far, so good. I suspect that all people are motivated by something pretty sordid, and I guess the clinical data bears me out on that. Sordid things, for the most part, are what make human beings, my father included, move. That's what it is to be human, I'm afraid.
"What the prosecutor has just done is to prove what everything about this world we've made for ourselves seems determined to prove, what the Ghost Shirt Society is determined to disprove: that I'm no good, you're no good, that we're no good because we're human."
Paul gazed into the television camera lenses and imagined the millions now

watching, now listening, and he wondered if he'd made sense to any of them. He tried to think of some vivid image that would bring his point home to them all. An image came to mind; he rejected it as indelicate, could find no other, and so blurted it out anyway.
"The most beautiful peonies I ever saw," said Paul, "were grown in almost pure cat excrement. I -"
Bagpipes and drums howled from the street below.
"What's going on out there?" demanded the judge.
"Parade, sir," said a guard, leaning out of the window.
"What organization is it?" said the judge. "I'll have every last one of them hauled in for this outrage."
"Dressed like Scotchmen, sir," said the guard, "with a couple fellas up front that look kind of like Injuns."
"All right," said the judge irritably, "we'll stop the testimony until they're past."
A brickbat shattered a courtroom window, showering the American flag to the judge's right with bits of glass.
CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE
The State Department limousine, bound for New York City, crossed the Iroquois

River at Ilium once more. In the back seat were Mr. Ewing J. Halyard, the Shah of Bratpuhr, spiritual leader of 6,000,000 members of the Kolhouri sect, and Khashdrahr Miasma, interpreter, and nephew of the Shah. The Shah and Khashdrahr, languishing with nostalgia for the temple bells, the splash of the fountain, and the cries of the houri selano in the palace courtyard, were going home.
When the expedition had crossed this bridge before, at the beginning of their trip, Halyard and the Shah, each in the fashion of his own culture, had been equals in splendor, with Khashdrahr coming off a poor, self-effacing third. Now, the hierarchy of the travelers had shifted. Khashdrahr's function had been extended, so that he served not only as a language bridge between the Shah and Halyard, but as an intermediate social step between them as well.
Wondering at the mechanics of being a human being, mechanics far beyond the poor leverage of free will, Mr. Halyard found himself representing the fact of no rank as plainly as Doctor Halyard had once represented a great deal of rank. Though he had told his charges nothing of the physical-education examination that could mean life or death to his career, they had sensed the collapse of his status the instant he'd been brought back from the Cornell gymnasium and revived.
When Halyard had recovered, and changed from the ruined shorts and tennis shoes into street clothes, he had seen in the mirror, not a brilliantly fashionable cosmopolite, but an old, overdressed fool. Off had come the boutonniere, the contrasting waistcoat, the colored shirt. Accessory by accessory, garment by garment, he'd stripped away the symbols of the discredited diplomat. Now he was, spiritually and sartorially, whites, grays, and blacks.
As though there were anything of Halyard left to crush, one more crushing blow had fallen. The State Department's personnel machines, automatically, with a respect for law and order never achieved by human beings, had started fraud proceedings against him, since he had never been entitled to his Ph.D., his classification numbers, or, more to the point, to his pay check.

"I'm going to bat for you," his immediate superior had written, but it was, Halyard knew, an archaic incantation in a wilderness of metal, glass, plastic, and inert gas.
"Khabu?" said the Shah, without looking at Halyard.
"Where are we?" said Khashdrahr to Halyard, filling the social gap for form's sake, though the Bratpuhrian word, God knows, was familiar enough to Halyard by now.
"Ilium. Remember? We crossed here before, going the other way." "Nakka Takaru tooie," said the Shah, nodding.
"Eh?"
"Where the Takaru spit in your face," said Khashdrahr.
"Oh - that." Halyard smiled. "I hope you don't take that home as your chief recollection of the United States. Perfectly ridiculous incident, isolated, irrational. It certainly isn't any indication of the temperament of the American people. That one neurotic would have to manifest his aggressions in front of you gentlemen. Believe me, you could travel this country for the next hundred years and never see another outburst like that."
Halyard let none of his bitterness show. With a melancholy spitefulness he continued, for these last days of his career, to perform his job impeccably. "Forget about him," he said, "and remember all the other things you've seen, and try to imagine how your own nation might be transformed."
The Shah made thoughtful clucking sounds.
"At no expense whatsoever to you," said Halyard, "America will send engineers and managers, skilled in all fields, to study your resources, blueprint your modernization, get it started, test and classify your people, arrange credit, set up

the machinery."
The Shah shook his head wonderingly. "Prakka-fut takki sihn," he said at last,
"souli, sakki EPICAC, siki Kanu pu?"
"Shah says," said Khashdrahr, " 'Before we take this first step, please, would you ask EPICAC what people are for?' "
The limousine came to a stop at the head of the bridge on the Homestead side, blocked this time, not by a Reconstruction and Reclamation Corps crew, but by a phalanx of Arabs. They were led, as though the significance of the banners and costumes weren't confusing enough, by two men wearing Indian shirts and war paint.
"Dinko?" said the Shah.
"Army?" said Khashdrahr.
Halyard had his first good chuckle in many weeks. That anyone, even a foreigner, could look on this colorful tangle of banners, sashes, and toy weapons as an effective fighting force! "Just some people having a little fun dressing up."
"Some of them have guns," said Khashdrahr.
"Wood, cardboard, and paint," said Halyard. "All make-believe." He picked up the speaking tube and spoke to the driver: "See if you can't ease past them and down a side street, toward the courthouse. Things ought to be quieter down there."
"Yessir," said the driver uneasily. "I don't know, though, sir. I don't like the way they're looking at us, and all that traffic on the other side looked like they were running away from something. Maybe we should turn around and -"
"Nonsense. Lock the doors, lean on the horn, and go on through. Things have come to a pretty pass if this sort of monkey business has the right of way over official business."

The bulletproof windows slithered to the top, the door locks clicked, and the limousine nosed diffidently into the apricot, green, and gold ranks of the Arabs.
Jeweled dirks and scimitars stabbed and slashed at the limousine's armored sides. Above the howls of the Arabs came crashes of gunfire. Two great pimples appeared suddenly in the side of the car, inches from Halyard's head.
Halyard, the Shah, and Khashdrahr threw themselves on the floor. The limousine plunged through the raging ranks, and down a side street.
"Head for the courthouse!" cried Halyard to the driver from the floor, "then out Westinghouse Boulevard!"
"The hell with you!" said the driver. "I'm bailing out right here. The whole town's going nuts!"
"Stay at the wheel or I kill you!" said Khashdrahr savagely. He was shielding the Shah's sacred body with his own poor flesh, and he held the point of a golden dagger against the back of the driver's neck.
Khashdrahr's next words were lost in an explosion nearby, followed by cheers and a hail of rubble on the limousine's top and hood.
"Here's the courthouse!" said the driver.
"Good. Turn left!" commanded Halyard.
"My God!" cried the driver. "Look!"
"What's the matter?" quavered Halyard, prone with Khashdrahr and the Shah. He could see only sky and building tops and passing skeins of smoke.
"The Scotchmen," said the driver hollowly. "My God, here come the Scotchmen." The limousine stopped with a shriek of rubber.

"All right, back up and -"
"You got radar down there on the floor? Take a look out the back window, then tell me we should back up."
Halyard raised his head cautiously above the window sill. The limousine was trapped by bagpipers ahead, and, behind, by a squad of gold-epauleted Royal Parmesans, who had sallied from an Automatic Market across the street from the courthouse.
An explosion hurled the market's conveyers and clips of canned goods through the windows. An automagic cashier rolled into the street, still miraculously upright on its round pedestal. "Did you see our special in Brussels sprouts?" it said, tripped on its own wire, and crashed to the pavement by the limousine, spewing cash from a mortal wound.
"It isn't us they're after!" called the driver. "Look!"
The Royal Parmesans, the Scotchmen, and a handful of Indians had joined forces and were ramming the courthouse door with a felled telephone pole.
The door burst into kindling, and the attackers were carried inside by the ram's momentum.
A moment later they emerged with a man on their shoulders. In the midst of their frenzied acclamation, he was marionettelike. As though to perfect the impression, bits of wire dangled from his extremities.
"To the Works!" cried the Indians.
The host, bearing their hero aloft like another banner beside the Stars and Stripes, followed the Indians toward the bridge across the Iroqois, cheering, skirting, smashing, dynamiting, and beating drums.
The limousine stayed where it had been trapped by the Royal Parmesans and

Scotchmen for an hour, while the dull thunder of explosions walked about the city like the steps of drunken giants, and afternoon turned to twilight under a curtain of smoke. Each time escape seemed possible, and Halyard raised his head to investigate a lull, fresh contingents of vandals and looters sent him to the floor again.
"All right," he said at last, "I think maybe we're all right now. Let's try to make it to the police station. We can get protection there until this thing plays itself out."
The driver leaned on the steering wheel and stretched insolently. "You think you've been watching a football game or something? You think maybe everything's going to be just the way it was before?"
"I don't know what's going on, and neither do you. Now, drive to the police station, do you understand?" said Halyard.
"You think you can order me around, just because you've got a Ph.D. and I've got nothing but a B.S.?"
"Do as he says," hissed Khashdrahr, placing the point of his knife in the back of the driver's neck again.
The limousine moved down the littered, now-deserted streets toward the headquarters of Ilium's keepers of the peace.
The street before the police station was snow-white, paved with bits of punctured pasteboard: the fifty-thousand-card deck with which the Ilium personnel and crime-prevention machines had played their tireless games - shuffling, dealing, off the bottom, off the top, out of the middle, palming, marking, reading, faster than the human eye could follow, controlling every card, and implacably protecting the interests of the house, always the house, any house.
The doors of the building had been torn from their hinges, and within were rolling dunes of dumped files.

Halyard opened his window a crack. "Hello, there," he called, and waited hopefully for a policeman to appear. "I say, hello!" He opened his door cautiously.
Before he could close it again, two Indians with pistols jerked the door wide open.
Khashdrahr lunged at them with his knife, and was knocked senseless. He fell on top of the quivering Shah.
"I say," said Halyard, and was knocked cold, too.
"To the Works!" ordered the Indians.
When Halyard regained consciousness he found himself with his aching head on the limousine floor, halfway out of the open door.
The car was parked in front of a saloon near the bridge.
The front of the saloon had been sandbagged, and inside were men operating radios, moving pins on maps, oiling weapons, and watching the clock. By the head of the bridge itself were crude breastworks of sandbags and timbers, facing the pillboxes and turrets of the Ilium Works across the river. Men in every conceivable type of uniform wandered about the fortifications in a holiday spirit, coming and going as they pleased, on missions seemingly best known to themselves.
The commandeering Indians and the driver were gone, while Khashdrahr and the Shah, bewildered and frightened, were being castigated by a tall, gaunt man who wore an Indian shirt but no war paint.
"Goddammit!" said the tall man. "The Knights of Kandahar are supposed to be manning the roadblock on Griffin Boulevard. What the hell you doing here?"
"We -" said Khashdrahr.

"Haven't got time to listen to excuses. Get back to your organization on the double!"
"But -"
"Lubbock!" cried the tall man.
"Yessir."
"Give these men transportation to the Griffin Boulevard block, or put 'em under arrest for insubordination."
"Yessir. Ammo truck's leaving now, sir." Lubbock hustled the Shah and Khashdrahr into the back of a truck, atop cases of handmade grenades.
"Brouha batouli, nibo. Nibo!" cried the Shah piteously. "Nibo!" The truck meshed its gears and disappeared into the smoke.
"I say," said Halyard thickly.
"Finnerty!" cried a short, fat man in thick glasses from the door of the saloon. "The state police are trying to break through the Griffin Boulevard roadblock! Who've we got for reinforcements?"
Finnerty's eyes widened, and he ran his hands through his hair. "Sent back two stragglers, and that's it. The VFW and the Knights of Pythias wandered off, and the Masons never did show up. Tell them we haven't got any reserves!"
A geyser of flame and shattered masonry spouted from the Ilium Works across the river, and Halyard saw that where the Stars and Stripes had flown over the works manager's office, a white flag now snapped in the smoky wind.
"For chrissake!" said Finnerty. "Get the Moose and Elks on the radio and tell them to quit it. They're supposed to occupy the Works, not atomize it."

"Baker Dog Three," said Lasher into a microphone. "Baker Dog Three. Protect all equipment in the Works until decision can be made as to proper disposition. Can you hear me, Baker Dog Three?"
The crowd by the saloon fell silent, to hear the reply of the Moose and Elks above the shushing noise of the loudspeaker.
"Baker Dog Three - did you hear me?" shouted Lasher.
"Zowie!" came a faraway cry in the speaker, and another volcano erupted in the Works.
"Lubbock!" said Finnerty. "Take over. I'm going over there to teach those babies a little discipline. We'll see who's running this show!" He climbed into a car, and sped across the bridge to the Works.
"Salt Lake City is ours!" shouted another radio operator inside the saloon.
"Oakland and Salt Lake and Ilium so far!" said Lasher. "What about Pittsburgh?"
"No reply."
"Pittsburgh's the key," said Lasher. "Keep trying." He glanced to the south over his shoulder, and a look of horror crossed his face. "Who set the museum on fire?" He shouted into his microphone desperately, "All posts! All posts! Protect all property! Vandalism and looting will be punished by death. Attention all posts - can you hear me?"
Silence.
"Moose? Elks? Knights of Pythias? VFW? Eagles? Hello! Anybody - can you hear me? Hello!"
Silence.

"Proteus!" called an Arab, staggering up to the saloon door, brandishing a bottle. "Where'sh Proteus? Give us a word."
Paul, haggard and aged, appeared beside Lasher in the saloon door. "God help us, gentlemen," he said slowly. "God help us. If we've won, it means that now the hard part begins."
"Jesus - you'd think we losht," said the Arab. "Shorry now I ashked for a word."
"Lou!"
"Right here," said the drunk Arab.
"Lou, boy - we forgot the bakery. Still poopin' out bread like nobody's business."
"Can't have it doin' that," said Lou. "Le'sh go knock the crap out of it." "Listen, wait," said Paul. "We'll need the bakery."
"Machine, ain't it?" said Lou.
"Yes, sure, but there's no sense in - "
"Then le'sh go knock the crap out of it. And, by God, here'sh ol' Al to go with us. Where you been, y'ol' horse-thief?"
"Blew up the goddam sewage 'sposal plant," said Al proudly.
" 'At's the shtuff! Give the friggin' worl' back to the friggin' people."
CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR

"I don't understand about Pittsburgh," said Finnerty. "I knew Seattle and Minneapolis were touch-and-go, but Pittsburgh!"
"And St. Louis and Chicago," said Paul, shaking his head.
"And Birmingham and Boston and New York," said Lasher, smiling sadly. He seemed curiously at peace, inexplicably satisfied.
"Pfft!" said Finnerty.
"Ilium came off like clockwork, anyway, and Salt Lake and Oakland," said Professor von Neumann. "So I think we can say that the theory of attack was essentially valid. The execution, of course, was something else again."
"It always is," said Lasher.
"What makes you so cheery?" said Paul.
"Would a good cry make you feel better, Doctor?" said Lasher.
"Now all we have to do is close ranks with Salt Lake City and Oakland, and strangle the country into submission," said Finnerty.
"I wish now we'd sent one of our Ilium people out to get EPICAC," said von Neumann. "EPICAC was worth three Pittsburghs."
"Too bad about the Roswell Moose, all right," said Lasher. "D-71 said they were crazy about the idea of getting EPICAC."
"Too crazy," said Paul.

"Nitro's tricky enough stuff, without having crazy men trying to get it into Coke bottles," said Finnerty.
The four thought-chiefs of the Ghost Shirt Society were seated about what had once been Paul's desk, the works manager's desk in the Ilium Works.
The revolution was not yet a day old. It was early in the morning, before sunrise, but here and there burning buildings made patches of Ilium as bright and hot as tropical noon.
"I wish they'd attack, and get it over with," said Paul.
"It'll take them a little while to get their nerve back, after what the Knights of Kandahar did to the state police on Griffin Boulevard," said Finnerty. He sighed. "By God, if only we'd had a few more outfits like that in Pittsburgh -"
"And St. Louis," said Paul, "and Seattle and Minneapolis and Boston and -"
"Let's talk about something else," said Finnerty. "How's the arm, Paul?"
"Not bad," said Paul, stroking the makeshift splint. The Messiah of the Ghost Shirt Society had had his left arm broken by a rock while exercising his magnetism on a crowd interested in seeing the power station blown up. "How's the head, Professor?"
"Ringing," said von Neumann, adjusting his bandage. He had been struck by the Sacred Mace of The Order of the Aurora Borealis while giving a crowd reasons for not felling a two-hundred-foot radio tower.
"Glockenspiel or carillon?" said Lasher. "And how are your own contusions and abrasions, Ed?"
Finnerty twisted his neck and raised his arms experimentally. "Nothing, really. If the pain gets any worse, I can simply kill myself." He had been floored and

trampled by stampeding Moose and Elks while explaining that the Works should be kept intact until a cool decision could be made as to which machines should be destroyed, which retained.
Fire spurted skyward from Homestead.
"Keeping the map right up to the minute, Professor?" said Lasher.
Professor von Neumann looked out at the new blaze through field glasses, and made a black X on the map before him. "Post office, most likely."
The map of the city had been clean and crackling at the start of the campaign, with a dozen small red circles indicating the primary objectives of the Ilium Putsch: the police station, the courthouse, communications centers, sites for roadblocks, the Ilium Works. After these objectives were taken, with a minimum of bloodshed and damage, the plan of operations declared, the systematic replacement of automatic control devices by human beings was to begin. The more important of these secondary objectives were circled in green.
But now the map was smudged and limp. Overlying the scattered constellation of red and green circles was a black, continuous smear of X's that marked what had been taken, and, moreover, destroyed.
Lasher glanced at his watch. "I've got 4 A.M. That right?" "Who knows?" said Finnerty.
"Can't you see the City Hall clock from there?"
"They got that hours ago."
"And they're likely to be after your watch any minute," said Paul. "Better put it back in your pocket."
"What gets me are the specialists," said Finnerty. "Some guys seem to have it in

for just one kind of machine, and leave everything else alone. There's a little colored guy going around town with a shotgun, blasting nothing but those little traffic safety boxes."
"Lord," said Paul, "I didn't think it'd be like this." "You mean losing?" said Lasher.
"Losing, winning - whatever this mess is."
"It has all the characteristics of a lynching," said the professor. "It's on such a big scale, though, I suppose genocide is closer. The good die with the bad - the flush toilets with the automatic lathe controls."
"I wonder if things would have been much different if it hadn't been for the liquor," said Paul.
"You can't ask men to attack pillboxes cold sober," said Finnerty. "And you can't ask them to stop when they're drunk," said Paul. "Nobody said it wasn't going to be messy," said Lasher.
A terrific explosion lifted the floor and dropped it.
"Boy!" said Luke Lubbock, standing guard in what had been Katharine Finch's office.
"What was it, Luke?" called Lasher.
"Gasoline storage tanks. Boy!"
" 'Ray," said Paul dismally.
"People of Ilium!" boomed a voice from the sky. "People of Ilium!"

Paul, Lasher, Finnerty, and von Neumann hurried to the opening where the floor- to-ceiling window had once been. Looking up, they saw a robot helicopter in the sky, its belly and blades reddened by the fires below.
"People of Ilium, lay down your arms!" said its loudspeaker. "Oakland and Salt Lake City have been restored to order. Your cause is lost. Overthrow your false leaders. "
"You are completely surrounded, cut off from the rest of the world. The blockade will not be lifted until Proteus, Lasher, Finnerty, and von Neumann are turned over to the authorities beyond the Griffin Boulevard roadblock."
"We could bomb and strafe you, but that is not the American way. We could send in tanks, but that is not the American way."
"This is an ultimatum: surrender your false leaders and lay down your arms within the next six hours, or suffer in the ruins of your own making for the next six months, cut off from the rest of the world. Click."
"People of Ilium, lay down your arms! Oakland and Salt Lake City have been re -"
Luke Lubbock aimed his rifle and fired.
"Beeby dee bobble dee beezle!" said the loudspeaker shrilly. "Noozle ah reeble
beejee boo."
"Put it out of its misery," said Finnerty.
Luke fired again.
The helicopter floundered off clumsily, still haranguing the town. "Beeby dee bobble dee beezle! Noozle ah reeble beejee . . ."

"Where are you going, Paul?" said Finnerty. "A walk."
"Mind if I come?"
"That's a small matter these days."
And the two walked out of the building and down the broad, littered boulevard that split the plant, past numbered façades that had nothing but silence, rubble, and scrap behind them.
"Not enough of it left for this to be like old times, eh?" said Finnerty, after they had walked some distance without speaking.
"New era," said Paul.
"Drink to it?" said Finnerty, taking a pint from the pocket of his ghost shirt.
"To the new era."
They sat down together before Building 58, and wordlessly passed the bottle back and forth.
"You know," said Paul at last, "things wouldn't have been so bad if they'd stayed the way they were when we first got here. Those were passable days, weren't they?" He and Finnerty were feeling a deep, melancholy rapport now, sitting amid the smashed masterpieces, the brilliantly designed, beautifully made machines. A good part of their lives and skills had gone into making them, making what they'd helped to destroy in a few hours.
"Things don't stay the way they are," said Finnerty. "It's too entertaining to try to change them. Remember the excitement of recording Rudy Hertz's movements, then trying to run automatic controls from the tape?"

"It worked!" said Paul.
"Damn right!"
"And then putting lathe group three together," said Paul. "Those weren't our ideas, of course."
"No, but we got ideas of our own later on. Wonderful ideas," said Finnerty. "Happiest I ever was, I guess, Paul; so damn engrossed, I never looked up to notice anything else."
"Most fascinating game there is, keeping things from staying the way they are."
"If only it weren't for the people, the goddamned people," said Finnerty, "always getting tangled up in the machinery. If it weren't for them, earth would be an engineer's paradise."
"Let's drink to that."
They did.
"You were a good engineer, Paul."
"You too, Ed. And there's no shame in that."
They shook hands warmly.
When they got back to the former works manager's office, they found Lasher and von Neumann asleep.
Finnerty shook Lasher's shoulder. "Master! Maestro! Maître!"
"Hmm?" The squat, homely man fumbled for his thick glasses, found them, and sat up. "Yes?"

"Doctor Proteus here has asked me a very interesting question," said Finnerty. "I was unable to supply him with a satisfactory answer."
"You're drunk. Go away, and let an old man sleep."
"This won't take long," said Finnerty. "Go ahead, Paul."
"What became of the Indians?" said Paul.
"What Indians?" said Lasher wearily.
"The original Ghost Shirt Society - the Ghost Dance Indians," said Finnerty. "Eighteen-ninety and all that."
"They found out the shirts weren't bulletproof, and magic didn't bother the U. S. Cavalry at all."
"So -?"
"So they were killed or gave up trying to be good Indians, and started being second-rate white men."
"And the Ghost Dance movement proved what?" said Paul.
"That being a good Indian was as important as being a good white man - important enough to fight and die for, no matter what the odds. They fought against the same odds we fought against: a thousand to one, maybe, or a little more."
Paul and Ed Finnerty looked at him incredulously.
"You thought we were sure to lose?" said Paul huskily.
"Certainly," said Lasher, looking at him as though Paul had said something idiotic.

"But you've been talking all along as though it were almost a sure thing," said Paul.
"Of course, Doctor," said Lasher patronizingly. "If we hadn't all talked that way, we wouldn't have had that one chance in a thousand. But I didn't let myself lose touch with reality."
Lasher, Paul realized, was the only one who hadn't lost touch with reality. He, alone of the four leaders, seemed unshocked by the course of events, undisturbed by them, even, inexplicably, at peace. Paul, perhaps, had been the one most out of touch, having had little time for reflection, having been so eager to join a large, confident organization with seeming answers to the problems that had made him sorry to be alive.
Finnerty was covering his initial surprise at Lasher's statement, so perfect an apostle was he. Most of all, apparently, he wanted to remain intellectually as one with the dynamic Lasher, and he, too, now looked at Paul as though surprised to find that Paul wasn't sure what was going on.
"If we didn't have a chance, then what on earth was the sense of -?" Paul left the sentence unfinished, and included the ruins of Ilium in a sweep of his hand.
Lasher was fully awake now, and he stood, and paced up and down the room, apparently irritated that he should have to explain something so obvious. "It doesn't matter if we win or lose, Doctor. The important thing is that we tried. For the record, we tried!" He walked behind Paul's old desk and faced Paul and Finnerty across it.
"What record?" said Paul.
Suddenly Lasher underwent a transformation. He showed a side of himself he had mentioned, but which Paul had found impossible to imagine.
And, with the transformation, the desk became a pulpit.

"Revolutions aren't my main line of business," said Lasher, his voice deep and rolling. "I'm a minister, Doctor, remember? First and last, I'm an enemy of the Devil, a man of God!"
CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE
As the sun arose over Ilium, and the embers of the town seemed gray in the light of the eternal fire ninety-three million miles away, the State Department limousine, flying a ghost shirt from its radio antenna, crept through the streets.
Bodies lay everywhere, in grotesque attitudes of violent death, but manifesting the miracle of life in a snore, a mutter, the flight of a bubble from the lips.
In the early light, the town seemed an enormous jewel box, lined with the black and gray velvet of fly-ash, and filled with millions of twinkling treasures: bits of air conditioners, amplidynes, analyzers, are welders, batteries, belts, billers, bookkeeping machines, bottlers, canners, capacitors, circuit-breakers, clocks, coin boxes, calorimeters, colorimeters, computers, condensers, conduits, controls, converters, conveyers, cryostats, counters, cutouts, densitometers, detectors, dust precipitators, dishwashers, dispensers, dynamometers, dynamotors, electrodes, electronic tubes, exciters, fans, filers, filters, frequency changers, furnaces, fuses, gages, garbage disposers, gears, generators, heat exchangers, insulators, lamps, loudspeakers, magnets, mass spectrometers, motor generators, motors, noisemeters, oscillographs, panelboards, personnel machines, photoelectric cells, potentiometers, pushbuttons, radios, radiation detectors, reactors, recorders, rectifiers, reducers, regulators, relays, remote controls, resistors, rheostats, selsyns, servos, solenoids, sorters, spectrophotometers, spectroscopes, springs, starters,

straingages, switchboards, switches, tape recorders, tachometers, telemeters, television sets, television cameras, testers, thermocouples, thermostats, timers, toasters, torquemeters, traffic controls, transitors, transducers, transformers, turbines, vacuum cleaners, vacuum gages, vacuum tubes, venders, vibration meters, viscosimeters, water heaters, wheels, X-ray spectrogoniometers, zymometers . . .
At the wheel of the limousine was Doctor Edward Francis Finnerty. Beside him was Doctor Paul Proteus. In the back seat were the Reverend James J. Lasher and Professor Ludwig von Neumann, and, asleep on the floor, lay Mr. Ewing J. Halyard of the State Department. In a world of ruins and deep sleep, Halyard's form on the floor was hardly cause for curiosity, comment, or remedial action.
The brains of the Ghost Shirt Society were touring the strongpoints on the frontiers of their Utopia. And everywhere they found the same things: abandoned weapons, abandoned posts, mounds of expended ammunition, and riddled machinery.
The four had come to an exciting decision: during the six months of blockade threatened by the authorities, they would make the ruins a laboratory, a demonstration of how well and happily men could live with virtually no machines. They saw now the common man's wisdom in wrecking practically everything. That was the way to do it, and the hell with moderation!
"All right, so we'll heat our water and cook our food and light and warm our homes with wood fires," said Lasher.
"And walk wherever we're going," said Finnerty.
"And read books instead of watching television," said von Neumann. "The Renaissance comes to upstate New York! We'll rediscover the two greatest wonders of the world, the human mind and hand."
"No quarter asked, no quarter given," said Paul as they contemplated the entire furnishings of an M-11 house, dragged into a vacant lot and hacked to bits.

"This is like the Indians' massacre of Custer and his men," said Lasher reflectively. "The Little Bighorn. One isolated victory against an irresistable tide. More and more whites where Custer came from; more and more machines where these came from. But we may win yet. Well! What is that noise? Somebody awake?"
A faint hubbub came from around a corner, from where the railroad station had been, where it still was after a fashion. Finnerty turned the corner for a better look at the celebrators.
In the station's waiting room, carnage was everywhere. The terrazzo floor, depicting an earlier slaughter of Iliumites by Oneida Indians, was strewn with the guts and internal secretions of the automatic ticket vendor, the automatic nylon vendor, the automatic coffee vendor, the automatic newspaper vendor, the automatic toothbrush vendor, the automatic shoeshine machine, the automatic photo studio, the automatic baggage checker, the automatic insurance salesman . . .
But around one machine a group had gathered. The people were crowding one another excitedly, as though a great wonder were in their midst.
Paul and Finnerty left the car to examine the mystery, and saw that the center of attention was an Orange-O machine. Orange-O, Paul recalled, was something of a cause célèbre, for no one in the whole country, apparently, could stomach the stuff - no one save Doctor Francis Eldgrin Gelhorne, National Industrial, Commercial, Communications, Foodstuffs, and Resources Director. As a monument to him, Orange-O machines stood shoulder-to-shoulder with the rest, though the coin-box collectors never found anything in the machines but stale Orange-O.
But now the excretor of the blended wood pulp, dye, water, and orange-type flavoring was as popular as a nymphomaniac at an American Legion convention.
"O.K., now let's try anotha' nickel in her an' see how she does," said a familiar

voice from behind the machine - the voice of Bud Calhoun.
"Clunkle" went the coin, and then a whir, and a gurgle.
The crowd was overjoyed.
"Filled the cup almost to the top that time; and she's nice and cold now, too," called the man by the machine's spout.
"But the light behind the Orange-O sign didn't light up," said a woman. "Supposed to."
"We'll fix that, won't we, Bud?" said another voice from behind the machine. "You people get me about three feet of that red wire hanging out of the shoeshine machine, and somebody let me borrow their penknife a second." The speaker stood up and stretched, and smiled contentedly, and Paul recognized him: the tall, middle-aged, ruddy-faced man who'd fixed Paul's car with the sweatband of his hat long ago.
The man had been desperately unhappy then. Now he was proud and smiling because his hands were busy doing what they liked to do best, Paul supposed - replacing men like himself with machines. He hooked up the lamp behind the Orange-O sign. "There we are."
Bud Calhoun bolted on the back. "Now try her."
The people applauded and lined up, eager for their Orange-O. The first man up emptied his cup, and went immediately to the end of the line for seconds.
"Now, le's have a look at this li'l ol' ticket seller," said Bud. "Oh, oh. Got it right through the microphone."
"I knew we'd be able to use the telephone out in the street for something," said the ruddy man. "I'll go get it."

The crowd, filled with Orange-O, was drifting over to encourage them in their new enterprise.
When Paul and Finnerty returned to the limousine, they found Lasher and von Neumann looking extremely glum, engaged in conversation with a bright-looking teenager.
"Have you, seen an eighth-horsepower electric motor lying around anywhere?" said the youngster. "One that isn't busted up too bad?"
Lasher shook his head.
"Well, I just have to keep looking, I guess," said the youngster, picking up a cardboard carton jammed with gears, tubes, switches, and other odd parts. "This place is a gold mine, all right, but it's tough finding exactly what you need."
"I imagine," said Lasher.
"Yep, if I had a decent little motor to go with what I got," said the youngster excitedly, "I'll betch anything I could make a gadget that'd play drums like nothing you ever heard before. See, you take a selsyn, and -"
"Proteus! Finnerty!" said Lasher irritably. "What's been keeping you?" "Didn't know you were in a hurry to get anywhere," said Finnerty. "Well, I am. Let's go."
"Where to?" Finnerty started the car.
"Griffin Boulevard. The roadblock."
"What's going on out there?" asked Paul.
"The authorities are waiting for the people of Ilium to turn over their false

leaders," said Lasher. "Anybody want to get out? I'll drive myself, if you like." Finnerty stopped the car.
"Well?" said Lasher.
"I suppose now is the time," said von Neumann matter-of-factly.
Paul said nothing, but made no move to get out.
Finnerty waited a moment longer, then pressed down on the accelerator.
No one spoke until they reached the concertina of barbed wire, the felled telephone poles, and the sandbags of the Griffin Boulevard roadblock. Two brown men, elegantly costumed - Khashdrahr Miasma and the Shah of Bratpuhr - huddled together, asleep in a slit trench to the left of the barricade. Beyond the barbed wire, their wheels toward heaven, were two riddled, abandoned state police cars.
Professor von Neumann looked out over the countryside through his field glasses. "Aha! The authorities." He handed the glasses to Paul. "There - to the left of that barn. See?"
Paul squinted at the three armored cars by the barn, and the police with their riot guns, lounging, smoking, chatting cheerfully.
Lasher patted Paul on his shoulder as Paul handed the glasses on to him. "Smile, Doctor Proteus - you're somebody now, like your old man was. Who's got a bottle?"
Finnerty produced one.
Lasher took it, and toasted the others. "To all good Indians," he said, "past, present, and future. Or, more to the point - to the record."

The bottle went around the group.
"The record," said Finnerty, and he seemed satisfied with the toast. He had got what he wanted from the revolution, Paul supposed - a chance to give a savage blow to a close little society that made no comfortable place for him.
"To the record," said von Neumann. He, too, seemed at peace. To him, the revolution had been a fascinating experiment, Paul realized. He had been less interested in achieving a premeditated end than in seeing what would happen with given beginnings.
Paul took the bottle and studied Lasher for a moment over its fragrant mouth. Lasher, the chief instigator of it all, was contented. A lifelong trafficker in symbols, he had created the revolution as a symbol, and was now welcoming the opportunity to die as one.
And that left Paul. "To a better world," he started to say, but he cut the toast short, thinking of the people of Ilium, already eager to recreate the same old nightmare. He shrugged. "To the record," he said, and smashed the empty bottle on a rock.
Von Neumann considered Paul and then the broken glass. "This isn't the end, you know," he said. "Nothing ever is, nothing ever will be - not even Judgment Day."
"Hands up," said Lasher almost gaily. "Forward March."

The refusal was always the same, handwritten by Mrs. Rumfoord's social secretary. 
Mrs. Winston Niles Rumfoord asks me to inform you that she is unable to extend the invitation 
you request. She is sure you will understand her feeling in the matter: that the phenomenon you 
wish to observe is a tragic family affair, hardly a fit subject for the scrutiny of outsiders, no 
matter how nobly motivated their curiosities. Mrs. Rumfoord and her staff answered none of the tens of thousands of 
questions that were 
put to them about the materializations. Mrs. Rumfoord felt that she owed the world very little 
indeed in the way of information. She discharged that incalculably small obligation by issuing a 
report twenty-four hours after each materialization. Her report never exceeded one hundred 
words. It was posted by her butler in a glass case bolted to the wall next to the one entrance to 
the estate. 
The one entrance to the estate was an Alice-in-Wonderland door in the west wall. The door 
was only four-and-a-half feet high. It was made of iron and held shut by a great Yale lock. 
The wide gates of the estate were bricked in. 
The reports that appeared in the glass case by the iron door were uniformly bleak and peevish. 
They contained information that only served to sadden any. one with a shred of curiosity. They 
told the exact time at which Mrs. Rumfoord's husband Winston and his dog Kazak materialized, 
and the exact time at which they dematerialized. The states of health of the man and his dog were 
invariably appraised as good. The reports implied that Mrs. Rumfoord's husband could see the 
past and the future clearly, but they neglected to give examples of sights in either direction. 
Now the crowd had been decoyed away from the estate to permit the untroubled arrival of a 
rented limousine at the small iron door in the west wall. A slender man in the clothes of an 
Edwardian dandy got out of the limousine and showed a paper to the policeman guarding the 
door. He was disguised by dark glasses and a false beard. The policeman nodded, and the man unlocked the door himself with a key from 
his pocket. He 
ducked inside, and slammed the door behind himself with a clang. 
The limousine drew away. 
Beware of the dog! said a sign over the small iron door. The fires of the summer sunset 
flickered among the razors and needles of broken glass set in concrete on the top of the wall. 
The man who had let himself in was the first person ever invited by Mrs. Rumfoord to a 
materialization. He was not a great scientist. He was not even well educated. He had been thrown 
out of the University of Virginia in the middle of his freshman year. He was Malachi Constant of 
Hollywood, California, the richest American — and a notorious rakehell. 
Beware of the dog! the sign outside the small iron door had said. But inside the wall there was 
only a dog's skeleton. It wore a cruelly spiked collar that was chained to the wall. It was the 
skeleton of a very large dog — a mastiff. Its long teeth meshed. Its skull and jaws formed a 
cunningly articulated, harmless working model of a flesh-ripping machine. The jaws closed so 
— clack. Here had been the bright eyes, there the keen ears, there the suspicious nostrils, there 
the carnivore's brain. Ropes of muscle had hooked here and here, had brought the teeth together 
in flesh so — clack. 
The skeleton was symbolic — a prop, a conversation piece installed by a woman who spoke to 
almost no one. No dog had died at its post there by the wall. Mrs. Rumfoord had bought the 
bones from a veterinarian, had had them bleached and varnished and wired together. The 
skeleton was one of Mrs. Rumfoord's many bitter and obscure comments on the nasty tricks time 
and her husband had played on her. 
Mrs. Winston Niles Rumfoord had seventeen million dollars. Mrs. Winston Niles Rumfoord 
had the highest social position attainable in the United States of America. Mrs. Winston Niles 
Rumfoord was healthy and handsome, and talented, too. 
Her talent was as a poetess. She had published anonymously a slim volume of poems called 
Between Timid and Timbuktu. It had been reasonably well received. The title derived from the fact that all the words between timid and Timbuktu in 
very small dictionaries relate to time. 
But, well-endowed as Mrs. Rumfoord was, she still did troubled things like chaining a dog's 
skeleton to the wall, like having the gates of the estate bricked up, like letting the famous formal 
gardens turn into New England jungle. 
The moral: Money, position, health, handsomeness, and talent aren't everything. 
Malachi Constant, the richest American, locked the Alice-in-Wonderland door behind him. He 
hung his dark glasses and false beard on the ivy of the wall. He passed the dog's skeleton briskly, 
looking at his solar-powered watch as he did so. In seven minutes, a live mastiff named Kazak 
would materialize and roam the grounds. 
"Kazak bites," Mrs. Rumfoord had said in her invitation, "so please be punctual." 
Constant smiled at that — the warning to be punctual. To be punctual meant to exist as a 
point, meant that as well as to arrive somewhere on time. Constant existed as a point — could 
not imagine what it would, be like to exist in any other way. 
That was one of the things he was going to find out — what it was like to exist in any other 
way. Mrs. Rumford's husband existed in another way. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord had run his private space ship right into the heart of an uncharted 
chrono-synclastic infundibulum two days out of Mars. Only his dog had been along. Now 
Winston Niles Rumfoord and his dog Kazak existed as wave phenomena — apparently pulsing 
in a distorted spiral with its origin in the Sun and its terminal in Betelgeuse. The earth was about to intercept that spiral. 
Almost any brief explanation of chrono-synclastic infundibula is certain to be offensive to 
specialists in the field. Be that as it may, the best brief explanation is probably that of Dr. Cyril 
Hall, which appears in the fourteenth edition of A Child's Cyclopedia of Wonders and Things to 
Do. The article is here reproduced in full, with gradous permission from the publishers: 
CHRONO-SYNCLASTIC INFUNDIBULA — Just imagine that your Daddy is the smartest man 
who ever lived on Earth, and he knows everything there is to find out, and he is exactly right 
about everything, and he can prove he is right about everything. Now imagine another little child 
on some nice world a million light years away, and that little child's Daddy is the smartest man 
who ever lived on that nice world so far away. And he is just as smart and just as right as your 
Daddy is. Both Daddies are smart, and both Daddies are right. 
Only if they ever met each other they would get into a terrible argument, because they 
wouldn't agree on anything. Now, you can say that your Daddy is right and the other little child's 
Daddy is wrong, but the Universe is an awfully big place. There is room enough for an awful lot 
of people to be right about things and still not agree. 
The reason both Daddies can be right and still get into terrible fights is because there are so 
many different ways of being right. There are places in the Universe, though, where each Daddy 
could finally catch on to what the other Daddy was talking about. These places are where all the 
different kinds of truths fit together as nicely as the parts in your Daddy's solar watch. We call 
these places chrono-synclastic infundibula. 
The Solar System seems to be full of chrono-synclastic infundibula. There is one great big one 
we are sure of that likes to stay between Earth and Mars. We know about that one because an 
Earth man and his Earth dog ran right into it. 
You might think it would be nice to go to a chrono-synclastic infundibulum and see all the 
different ways to be absolutely right, but it is a very dangerous thing to do. The poor man and his 
poor dog are scattered far and wide, not just through space, but through time, too. 
Chrono (kroh-no) means time. Synclastic (sin-class-tick) means curved toward the same side 
in all directions, like the skin of an orange. Infundibulum (in-fun-dib-u-lum) is what the ancient 
Romans like Julius Caesar and Nero called a funnel. If you don't know what a funnel is, get 
Mommy to show you one. 
The key to the Alice-in-Wonderland door had come with the invitation. Malachi Constant 
slipped the key into his fur-lined trouser pocket and followed the one path that opened before 
him. He walked in deep shadow, but the flat rays of the sunset filled the treetops with a Maxfield 
Parrish light. 
Constant made small motions with his invitation as he proceeded, expecting to be challenged 
at every turn. The invitation's ink was violet. Mrs. Rumfoord was only thirty- four, but she wrote 
like an old woman — in a kinky, barbed hand. She plainly detested Constant, whom she had 
never met. The spirit of the invitation was reluctant, to say the least, as though written on a soiled 
handkerchief. 
"During my husband's last materialization," she had said in the invitation, "he insisted that you 
be present for the next. I was unable to dissuade him from this, despite the many obvious 
drawbacks. He insists that he knows you well, having met you on Titan, which, I am given to 
understand, is a moon of the planet Saturn." 
There was hardly a sentence in the invitation that did not contain the verb insist. Mrs. 
Rumfoord's husband had insisted on her doing something very much against her own judgment, 
and she in turn was insisting that Malachi Constant behave, as best he could, like the gentleman 
he was not. 
Malachi Constant had never been to Titan. He had never, so far as he knew, been outside the 
gaseous envelope of his native planet, the Earth. Apparently he was about to learn otherwise. 
The turns in the path were many, and the visibility was short. Constant was following a damp 
green path the width of a lawn mower — what was in fact the swath of a lawn mower. Rising on 
both sides of the path were the green walls of the jungle the gardens had become. 
The mower's swath skirted a dry fountain. The man who ran the mower had become creative 
at this point, had made the path fork. Constant could choose the side of the fountain on which he 
preferred to pass. Constant stopped at the fork, looked up. The fountain itself was marvelously 
creative. It was a cone described by many stone bowls of decreasing diameters. The bowls were 
collars on a cylindrical shaft forty feet high. 
Impulsively, Constant chose neither one fork nor the other, but climbed the fountain itself. He 
climbed from bowl to bowl, intending when he got to the top to see whence he 
had come and whither he was bound. 
Standing now in the topmost, in the smallest of the baroque fountain's bowls, standing with his 
feet in the ruins of birds' nests, Malachi Constant looked out over the estate, and over a large part 
of Newport and Narragansett Bay. He held up his watch to sunlight, letting it drink in the 
wherewithal that was to solar watches what money was to Earth men. 
The freshening sea breeze ruffled Constant's blue-black hair. He was a well- made man — a 
light heavyweight, dark-skinned, with poet's lips, with soft brown eyes in the shaded caves of a 
Cro-Magnon brow-ridge. He was thirty-one. 
He was worth three billion dollars, much of it inherited. 
His name meant faithful messenger. 
He was a speculator, mostly in corporate securities. 
In the depressions that always followed his taking of alcohol, narcotics, and women, Constant 
pined for just one thing — a single message that was sufficiently dignified and important to merit 
his carrying it humbly between two points. The motto under the coat of arms that Constant had designed for himself said 
simply, The Messenger Awaits. 
What Constant had in mind, presumably, was a first. class message from God to someone 
equally distinguished. 
Constant looked at his solar watch again. He had two minutes in which to climb down and 
reach the house — two minutes before Kazak would materialize and look for strangers to bite. 
Constant laughed to himself, thinking how delighted Mrs. Rumfoord would be were the vulgar, 
parvenu Mr. Constant of Hollywood to spend his entire visit treed on the fountain by a 
thoroughbred dog. Mrs. Rumfoord might even have the fountain turned on. 
It was possible that she was watching Constant. The mansion was a minute's walk from the 
fountain — set off from the jungle by a mowed swath three times the width of the path. 
The Rumfoord mansion was marble, an extended reproduction of the banqueting hall of 
Whitehall Palace in London. The mansion, like most of the really grand ones in Newport, was a 
collateral relative of post offices and Federal court buildings throughout the land. 
The Rumfoord mansion was an hilariously impressive expression of the concept: People of 
substance. It was surely one of the greatest essays on density since the Great Pyramid of Khufu. 
In a way it was a better essay on permanence than the Great Pyramid, since the 
Great Pyramid 
tapered to nothingness as it approached heaven. Nothing about the Rumfoord mansion 
diminished as it approached heaven. Turned upside down, it would have looked exactly the 
same. 
The density and permanence of the mansion were, of course, at ironic variance with the fact 
that the quondam master of the house, except for one hour in every fifty-nine days, was no more 
substantial than a moonbeam. 
Constant climbed down from the fountain, stepping onto the rims of bowls of ever-increasing 
sizes. When he got to the bottom, he was filled with a strong wish to see the fountain go. He 
thought of the crowd outside, thought of how they, too, would enjoy seeing the fountain go. They 
would be enthralled — watching the teeny-weeny bowl at the tippy-tippy top brimming over into 
the next little bowl . . . and the next little bowl's brimming over into the next little bowl . . . and 
the next little bowl's brimming over into the next bowl . . . and on and on and on, a rhapsody of 
brimming, each bowl singing its own merry water song. And yawning under all those bowls was 
the upturned mouth of the biggest bowl of them all . . . a regular Beelzebub of a 
bowl, bone dry and insatiable . . . waiting, waiting, waiting for that first sweet drop. 
Constant was rapt, imagining that the fountain was running. The fountain was very much like 
an hallucination — and hallucinations, usually drug-induced, were almost all that could surprise 
and entertain Constant any more. Time passed quickly. Constant did not move. 
Somewhere on the estate a mastiff bayed. The baying sounded like the blows of a maul on a 
great bronze gong. 
Constant awoke from his contemplation of the fountain. The baying could only be that of 
Kazak, the hound of space. Kazak had materialized. Kazak smelled the blood of a parvenu. 
Constant sprinted the remainder of the distance to the house. 
An ancient butler in knee breeches opened the door for Malachi Constant of Hollywood. The 
butler was weeping for joy. He was pointing into a room that Constant could not see. The butler 
was trying to describe the thing that made him so happy and full of tears. He could not speak. 
His jaw was palsied, and all he could say to Constant was, "Putt putt — putt putt putt." 
The floor of the foyer was a mosaic, showing the signs of the zodiac encircling a golden sun. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord, who had materialized only a minute before, came into the foyer and 
stood on the sun. He was much taller and heavier than Malachi Constant — and he was the first 
person who had ever made Constant think that there might actually be a person superior to 
himself. Winston Niles Rumfoord extended his soft hand, greeted Constant familiarly, almost 
singing his greeting in a glottal Groton tenor. 
"Delighted, delighted, delighted, Mr. Constant," said Rumfoord. "How nice of you to 
commmmmmmmme." 
"My pleasure," said Constant. 
"They tell me you are possibly the luckiest man who ever lived." 
"That might be putting it a little too strong," said Constant. 
"You won't deny you've had fantastically good luck financially," said Rumfoord. 
Constant shook his head. "No. That would be hard to deny," he said. 
"And to what do you attribute this wonderful luck of yours?" said Rumfoord. 
Constant shrugged. "Who knows?" he said. "I guess somebody up there likes me," he said. 
Rumfoord looked up at the ceiling. "What a charming concept — someone's liking you up 
there." 
Constant, who had been shaking hands with Rumfoord during the conversation, thought of his 
own hand, suddenly, as small and clawlike. 
Rumfoord's palm was callused, but not horny like the palm of a man doomed to a single trade 
for all of his days. The calluses were perfectly even, made by the thousand happy labors of an 
active leisure class. 
For a moment, Constant forgot that the man whose hand he shook was simply one aspect, one 
node of a wave phenomenon extending all the way from the Sun to Betelguese. The handshake 
reminded Constant what it was that he was touching — for his hand tingled with a small but 
unmistakable electrical flow. 
Constant had not been bullied into feeling inferior by the tone of Mrs. Rumfoord's invitation to 
the materialization. Constant was a male and Mrs. Rumfoord was a female, and Constant 
imagined that he had the means of demonstrating, if given the opportunity, his unquestionable 
superiority. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord was something else again — morally, spatially, socially, sexually, 
and electrically. Winston Niles Rumfoord's smile and handshake dis. mantled Constant's high 
opinion of himself as efficiently as carnival roustabouts might dismantle a Ferris wheel. 
Constant, who had offered his services to God as a messenger, now panicked before the very 
moderate greatness of Rumfoord. Constant ransacked his memory for past proofs of his own 
greatness. He ransacked his memory like a thief going through another man's billfold. Constant 
found his memory stuffed with rumpled, overexposed snapshots of all the women he had had, 
with preposterous credentials testifying to his ownership of even more preposterous enterprises, 
with testimonials that attributed to him virtues and strengths that only three billion dollars could 
have. There was even a silver medal with a red ribbon — awarded to Constant for placing second 
in the hop, skip, and jump in an intramural track meet at the University of Virginia. 
Rumfoord's smile went on and on. 
To follow the analogy of the thief who is going through another man's billfold: Constant 
ripped open the seams of his memory, hoping to find a secret compartment with something of 
value in it. There was no secret compartment — nothing of value. All that remained to Constant 
were the husks of his memory — unstitched, flaccid flaps. 
The ancient butler looked adoringly at Rumfoord, went through the cringing contortions of an 
ugly old woman posing for a painting of the Madonna. "The mah-stuh — " he bleated. "The 
young mah-stuh." 
"I can read your mind, you know," said Rumfoord. 
"Can you?" said Constant humbly. 
"Easiest thing in the world," said Rumford. His eyes twinkled. "You're not a bad sort, you 
know — " he said, "particularly when you forget who you are." He touched Constant lightly on 
the arm. It was a politician's gesture — a vulgar public gesture by a man who in private, among 
his own kind, would take wincing pains never to touch anyone. 
"If it's really so important to you, at this stage of our relationship, to feel superior to me in 
some way," he said to Constant pleasantly, "think of this: You can reproduce and I cannot." 
He now turned his broad back to Constant, led the way through a series of very grand 
chambers. 
He paused in one, insisted that Constant admire a huge oil painting of a little girl holding the 
reins of a pure white pony. The little girl wore a white bonnet, a white, starched dress, white 
gloves, white socks, and white shoes. 
She was the cleanest, most frozen little girl that Malachi Constant had ever seen. There was a 
strange expression on her face, and Constant decided that she was worried about getting the least 
bit dirty. 
"Nice picture," said Constant. 
"Wouldn't it be too bad if she fell into a mud puddle?" said Rumfoord. 
Constant smiled uncertainly. 
"My wife as a child," said Rumfoord abruptly, and he led the way out of the room. 
He led the way down a back corridot and into a tiny room hardly larger than a big broom 
closet: It was ten feet long, six feet wide, and had a ceiling, like the rest of the rooms in the 
mansion, twenty feet high. The room was like a chimney. There were two wing chairs in it. 
"An architectural accident — " said Rumfoord, closing the door and looking up at the ceiling. 
"Pardon me?" said Constant. 
"This room," said Rumfoord. With a limp right hand, he made the magical sign for spiral 
staircase. "It was one of the few things in life I ever really wanted with all my heart when I was a 
boy — this little room." 
He nodded at shelves that ran six feet up the window wall. The shelves were beautifully made. 
Over the shelves was a driftwood plank that had written on it in blue paint: SKIP'S MUSEUM. 
Skip's Museum was a museum of mortal remains — of endoskeletons and exoskeletons — of 
shells, coral, bone, cartilage, and chiton — of dottles and orts and residua of souls long gone. 
Most of the specimens were those that a child — presumably Skip — could find easily on the 
beaches and in the woods of Newport. Some were obviously expensive presents to a child 
extraordinarily interested in the science of biology. Chief among these presents was the complete skeleton of an adult human male. 
There was also the empty suit of armor of an armadillo, a stuffed dodo, and the long spiral 
tusk of a narwhal, playfully labeled by Skip, Unicorn Horn. "Who is Skip?" said Constant. "I am Skip," said Rumfoord. "Was." "I didn't know," said Constant. 
"Just in the family, of course," said Rumfoord. 
"Um," said Constant. 
Rumfoord sat down in one of the wing chairs, motioned Constant to the other. 
"Angels can't either, you know," said Rumfoord. 
"Can't what?" said Constant. 
"Reproduce," said Rumfoord. He offered Constant a cigarette, took one himself, and placed it 
in a long, bone cigarette holder. "I'm sorry my wife was too indisposed to come 
downstairs — to 
meet you," he said. "It isn't you she's avoiding — it's me." 
"You?" said Constant. 
"That's correct," said Rumfoord. "She hasn't seen me since my first materialization." He 
chuckled ruefully. "Once was enough." "I — I'm sorry," said Constant. "I don't understand." 
"She didn't like my fortunetelling," said Rumfoord. "She found it very upsetting, what little I 
told her about her future. She doesn't care to hear more." He sat back in his wing chair, inhaled 
deeply. "I tell you, Mr. Constant," he said genially, "it's a thankless job, telling people it's a hard, 
hard Universe they're in." "She said you'd told her to invite me," said Constant 
"She got the message from the butler," said Rumfoord. "I dared her to invite you, or she 
wouldn't have done it. You might keep that in mind: the only way to get her to do anything is to 
tell her she hasn't got the courage to do it. Of course, it isn't an infallible technique. I could send 
her a message now, telling her that she doesn't have the courage to face the future, and she would 
send me back a message saying I was right." "You — you really can see into the future?" said Constant. The skin of his face 
tightened, felt parched. His palms perspired. 
"In a punctual way of speaking — yes," said Rumfoord. "When I ran my space ship into the 
chrono-synclastic infundibulum, it came to me in a flash that everything that ever has been 
always will be, and everything that ever will be always has been." He chuckled again. "Knowing 
that rather takes the glamour out of fortunetelling — makes it the simplest, most obvious thing 
imaginable." 
"You told your wife everything that was going to happen to her?" said Constant. This was a 
glancing question. Constant had no interest in what was going to happen to Rumfoord's wife. He 
was ravenous for news of himself. In asking about Rumfoord's wife, he was being coy. 
"Well — not everything," said Rumfoord. "She wouldn't let me tell her everything. What little 
I did tell her quite spoiled her appetite for more." "I — I see," said Constant, not seeing at all. 
"Yes," said Rumfoord genially, "I told her that you and she were to be married on Mars." He 
shrugged. "Not married exactly — " he said, "but bred by the Martians — like farm animals." 
Winston Niles Rumfoord was a member of the one true American class. The 
class was a true 
one because its limits had been clearly defined for at least two centuries — clearly defined for 
anyone with an eye for definitions. From Rumfoord's small class had come a tenth of America's 
presidents, a quarter of its explorers, a third of its Eastern Seaboard governors, a half of its fulltime ornithologists, three-quarters of its great yachtsmen, and virtually all of its underwriters of 
the deficits of grand opera. It was a class singularly free of quacks, with the notable exception of 
political quacks. The political quackery was a means of gaining office — and was never carried 
into private life. Once in office, members of the class became, almost without exception, 
magnificently responsible. 
If Rumfoord accused the Martians of breeding people as though people were no better than 
farm animals, he was accusing the Martians of doing no more than his own class had done. The 
strength of his class depended to some extent on sound money management — but depended to a 
much larger extent on marriages based cynically on the sorts of children likely to be produced. 
Healthy, charming, wise children were the desiderata. 
The most competent, if humorless, analysis of Rumfoord's class is, beyond question, Waltham 
Kittredge's The American Philosopher Kings. It was Kittredge who proved that the dass was in 
fact a family, with its loose ends neatly turned back into a hard core of consanguinity through the 
agency of cousin marriages. Rumfoord and his wife, for instance, were third cousins, and 
detested each other. 
And when Rumfoord's class was diagramed by Kittredge, it resembled nothing so much as the 
hard, ball-like knot known as a monkey's fist. Waltham Kittredge often floundered in his The American Philosopher Kings, 
trying to 
translate the atmosphere of Rumfoord's class into words. Like the college professor he was, 
Kittredge groped only for big words, and, finding no apt ones, he coined a lot of untranslatable 
new ones. 
Of all Kittredge's jargon, only one term has ever found its way into conversation. The term is 
un-neurotic courage. It was that sort of courage, of course, that carried Winston Niles Rumfoord out 
into space. It 
was pure courage — not only pure of lusts for fame and money, but pure of any drives that 
smack of the misfit or screwball. There are, incidentally, two strong, common words that would have served 
handsomely, one or the other, in place of all of Kittredge's jargon. The words are style and 
gallantr y. When Rumfoord became the first person to own a private space ship, paying 
fifty-eight 
million dollars out of his own pocket for it — that was style. 
When the governments of the earth suspended all space exploration because of the chronosynclastic infundibula, and Rumfoord announced that he was going to Mars — that was style. 
When Rumfoord announced that he was taking a perfectly tremendous dog along, as though a 
space ship were nothing more than a sophisticated sports car, as though a trip to Mars were little 
more than a spin down the Connecticut Turnpike — that was style. 
When it was unknown what would happen if a space ship went into a chrono- synclastic 
infundibulum, and Rumfoord steered a course straight for the middle of one — that was gallantry 
indeed. 
To contrast Malachi Constant of Hollywood with Winston Niles Rumfoord of Newport and 
Eternity: Everything Rumfoord did he did with style, making all mankind look good. 
Everything Constant did he did in style — aggressively, loudly, childishly, wastefully — 
making himself and mankind look bad. 
Constant bristled with courage — but it was anything but un-neurotic. Every courageous thing 
he had ever done had been motivated by spitefulness and by goads from childhood that made 
fear seem puny indeed. 
Constant, having just heard from Rumfoord that he was to be mated to Rumfoord's wife on 
Mars, looked away from Rumfoord to the museum of remains along one wall. Constant's hands 
were clasped together, tightening on each other pulsingly. 
Constant cleared his throat several times. Then he whistled thinly between his tongue and the 
roof of his mouth. In all, he was behaving like a man who was waiting for a terrible pain to pass. 
He closed his eyes and sucked in air between his teeth. "Loo dee doo, Mr. Rumfoord," he said 
softly. He opened his eyes. "Mars?" be said. 
"Mars," said Rumfoord. "Of course, that isn't your ultimate destination — or Mercury either." 
"Mercury?" said Constant. He made an unbecoming quack of that lovely name. 
"Your destination is Titan," said Rumfoord, "but you visit Mars, Mercury, and Earth again 
before you get there." 
It is crucial to understand at what point in the history of punctual space exploration it was that 
Malachi Constant received the news of his prospective visits to Mars, Mercury, 
Earth, and Titan. 
The state of mind on Earth with regard to space exploration was much like the state of mind in 
Europe with regard to exploration of the Atlantic before Christopher Columbus set out. 
There were these important differences, however: the monsters between space explorers and 
their goals were not imaginary, but numerous, hideous, various, and uniformly cataclysmic; the 
cost of even a small expedition was enough to ruin most nations; and it was a virtual certainty 
that no expedition could increase the wealth of its sponsors. 
In short, on the basis of horse sense and the best scientific information, there was nothing good 
to be said for the exploration of space. 
The time was long past when one nation could seem more glorious than another by hurling 
some heavy object into nothingness. Galactic Spacecraft, a corporation controlled by Malachi 
Constant, had, as a matter of fact, received the very last order for such a showpiece, a rocket 
three hundred feet high and thirty-six feet in diameter. It had actually been built, but the fire 
order had never come. 
The ship was called simply The Whale, and was fitted with living quarters for five passengers. 
What had brought everything to such an abrupt halt was the discovery of the chrono-synclastic 
infundibula. They had been discovered mathematically, on the basis of bizarre flight patterns of 
unmanned ships sent out, supposedly, in advance of men. The discovery of the chrono-synclastic infundibula said to mankind in effect: " 
What makes 
you think you're going anywhere?" 
It was a situation made to order for American fundamentalist preachers. They were quicker 
than philosophers or historians or anybody to talk sense about the truncated Age of Space. Two 
hours after the firing of The Whale was called off indefinitely, the Reverend Bobby Denton 
shouted at his Love Crusade in Wheeling, West Virginia: 
"And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded. 
And the Lord said, "Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they 
begin to do; and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do. Go 
to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's 
speech." So the Lord scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth; and they 
left off to build the city. Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the 
Lord did there 
confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the Lord scatter them abroad upon 
the face of the earth.'" 
Bobby Denton spitted his audience on a bright and loving gaze, and proceeded to roast it 
whole over the coals of its own iniquity. "Are these not Bible times?" he said. "Have we not 
builded of steel and pride an abomination far taller than the Tower of Babel of old? And did we 
not mean, like those builders of old, to get right into Heaven with it? And haven't we heard it 
said many times that the language of scientists is international? They all use the same Latin and 
Greek words for things, and they all talk the language of numbers." This seemed a particularly 
damning piece of evidence to Denton, and the Love Crusaders agreed bleakly without quite 
understanding why. 
"So why should we cry out in surprise and pain now when God says to us what He said to the 
people who builded the Tower of Babel: 'No! Get away from there! You aren't going to Heaven 
or anywhere else with that thing! Scatter, you hear? Quit talking the language of science to each 
other! Nothing will be restrained from you which you have imagined to do, if 
you all keep on 
talking the language of science to each other, and I don't want that! I, your Lord God on High 
want things restrained from you, so you will quit thinking about crazy towers and rockets to 
Heaven, and start thinking about how to be better neighbors and husbands and wives and 
daughters and sons! Don't look to rockets for salvation — look to your homes and churches!'" 
Bobby Denton's voice grew hoarse and hushed. "You want to fly through space? God has 
already given you the most wonderful space ship in all creation! Yes! Speed? You want speed? 
The space ship God has given you goes sixty-six thousand miles an hour — and will keep on 
running at that speed for all eternity, if God wills it. You want a space ship that will carry men in 
comfort? You've got it! It won't carry just a rich man and his dog, or just five men or ten men. 
No! God is no piker! He's given you a space ship that will carry billions of men, women, and 
children! Yes! And they don't have to stay strapped in chairs or wear fishbowls over their heads. 
No! Not on God's space ship. The people on God's space ship can go swimming, and walk in the 
sunshine and play baseball and go ice skating and go for family rides in the family automobile on 
Sunday after church and a family chicken dinner!" 
Bobby Denton nodded. "Yes!" he said. "And if anybody thinks his God is mean for putting 
things out in space to stop us from flying out there, just let him remember the space ship God 
already gave us. And we don't have to buy the fuel for it, and worry and fret over what kind of 
fuel to use. No! God worries about all that. 
"God told us what we had to do on this wonderful space ship. He wrote the rules so anybody 
could understand them. You don't have to be a physicist or a great chemist or an Albert Einstein 
to understand them. No! And He didn't make a whole lot of rules, either. They tell me that if they 
were to fire The Whale, they would have to make eleven thousand separate checks before they 
could be sure it was ready to go: Is this valve open, is that valve dosed, is that wire tight, is that 
tank full? — and on and on and on to eleven thousand things to check. Here on God's space ship, 
God only gives us ten things to check — and not for any little trip to some big, dead poisonous 
stones out in space, but for a trip to the Kingdom of Heaven! Think of it! Where would you 
rather be tomorrow — on Mars or in the Kingdom of Heaven? "You know what the check list is on God's round, green space ship? Do I have to 
tell you? 
You want to hear God's countdown?" 
The Love Crusaders shouted back that they did. 
"Ten! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you covet thy neighbor's house, or his manservant, or his 
maidservant, or his ox, or his ass, or anything that is thy neighbor's?" "No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Nine! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you bear false witness against thy neighbor?" 
"No!" cried the Love Crusaders. "Eight! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you steal?" "No!" cried 
the Love Crusaders. "Seven! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you commit adultery?" 
"No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Six! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you kill?" 
"No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Five! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you honor thy father and thy mother?" 
"Yes!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Four! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you remember the Sabbath day, and keep it holy?" 
"Yes!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Three! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you take the name of the Lord thy God in vain?" 
"No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Two! — " said Bobby Denton. "Do you make any graven images?" "No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"One! — " cried Bobby Denton. "Do you put any gods before the one true Lord thy God?" 
"No!" cried the Love Crusaders. 
"Blast off!" shouted Bobby Denton joyfully. "Paradise, here we come! Blast off, children, and 
Amen!" 
"Well — " murmured Malachi Constant, there in the chimneylike room under the staircase in 
Newport, "it looks like the messenger is finally going to be used." "What was that?" said Rumfoord. 
"My name — it means faithful messenger," said Constant. "What's the message?" 
"Sorry," said Rumfoord, "I know nothing about any message." He cocked his head quizzically. 
"Somebody said something to you about a message?" 
Constant turned his palms upward. "I mean — what am I going to go to all this trouble to get 
to Triton for?" "Titan," Rumfoord corrected him. 
"Titan, Triton," said Constant. "What the blast would I go there for?" Blast was a weak, prissy, 
Eagle-Scoutish word for Constant to use — and it took him a moment to realize why he had used 
it. Blast was what space cadets on television said when a meteorite carried away a control 
surface, or the navigator turned out to be a space pirate from the planet Zircon. He stood. "Why 
the hell should I go there?" "You do — I promise you," said Rumfoord. 
Constant went over to the window, some of his arrogant strength returning. "I tell you right 
now," he said, "I'm not going." 
"Sorry to hear that," said Rumfoord. 
"I'm supposed to do something for you when I get there?" said Constant. 
"No," said Rumfoord. 
"Then why are you sorry?" said Constant. "What's it to you?" 
"Nothing," said Rumfoord. "I'm only sorry for you. You'll really be missing something." 
"Like what?" said Constant. "Well — the most pleasant climate imaginable, for one thing," said Rumfoord. 
"Climate!" said Constant contemptuously. "With houses in Hollywood, the Vale of Kashmir, 
Acapulco, Manitoba, Tahiti, Paris, Bermuda, Rome, New York, and Capetown, I should leave 
Earth in search of happier climes?" 
"There's more to Titan than just climate" said Rumfoord. "The women, for instance, are the 
most beautiful creatures between the Sun and Betelgeuse." 
Constant guffawed bitterly. "Women!" he said. "You think I'm having trouble getting beautiful 
women? You think I'm love-starved, and the only way I'll ever get close to a beautiful woman is 
to climb on a rocket ship and head for one of Saturn's moons? Are you kidding? I've had women 
so beautiful, anybody between the Sun and Betelgeuse would sit down and cry if the women said 
as much as hello to 'em!" 
He took out his billfold, and slipped from it a photograph of his most recent conquest. There 
was no question about it — the girl in the photograph was staggeringly beautiful. She was Miss 
Canal Zone, a runner-up in the Miss Universe Contest — and in fact far more beautiful than the 
winner of the contest. Her beauty had frightened the judges. 
Constant handed Rumfoord the photograph. "They got anything like that on Titan?" he said. 
Rumfoord studied the photograph respectfully, handed it back. "No — " he said, "nothing like 
that on Titan." 
"O.K.," said Constant, feeling very much in control of his own destiny again, "climate, 
beautiful women — what else?" "Nothing else," said Rumfoord mildly. He shrugged. "Oh — art objects, if you 
like art." "I've got the biggest private art collection in the world," said Constant. 
Constant had inherited this famous art collection. The collection had been made by his father 
— or, rather, by agents of his father. It was scattered through museums all over the world, each 
piece plainly marked as a part of the Constant Collection. The collection had been made and then 
deployed in this manner on the recommendation of the Director of Public Relations of Magnum 
Opus, Incorporated, the corporation whose sole purpose was to manage the Constant affairs. 
The purpose of the collection had been to prove how generous and useful and sensitive 
billionaires could be. The collection had turned out to be a perfectly gorgeous investment, as 
well. "That takes care of art," said Rumfoord. 
Constant was about to return the photograph of Miss Canal Zone to his billfold, when he felt 
that he held not one photograph but two. There was a photograph behind that of Miss Canal 
Zone. He supposed that that was a photograph of Miss Canal Zone's predecessor, and he thought 
that he might as well show Rumfoord her, too — show Rumfoord what a celestial lulu he had 
given the gate to. 
"There — there's another one," said Constant, holding out the second photograph to 
Rumfoord. 
Rumfoord made no move to take the photograph. He didn't even bother to look at it. He 
looked instead into Constant's eyes and grinned roguishly. 
Constant looked down at the photograph that had been ignored. He found that it was not a 
photograph of Miss Canal Zone's predecessor. It was a photograph that Rumfoord had slipped to 
him. It was no ordinary photograph, though its surface was glossy and its margins white. 
Within the margins lay shimmering depths. The effect was much like that of a rectangular 
glass window in the surface of a clear, shallow, coral bay. At the bottom of that seeming coral 
bay were three women — one white, one gold, one brown. They looked up at Constant, begging 
him to come to them, to make them whole with love. 
Their beauty was to the beauty of Miss Canal Zone as the glory of the Sun was to the glory of 
a lightning bug. 
Constant sank into a wing chair again. He had to look away from all that beauty in order to 
keep from bursting into tears. 
"You can keep that picture, if you like," said Rumfoord. "It's wallet size." Constant could think of nothing to say. 
"My wife will still be with you when you get to Titan," said Rumfoord, "but she won't 
interfere if you want to frolic with these three young ladies. Your son will be with you, too, but 
he'll be quite as broadminded as Beatrice." 
"Son?" said Constant. He had no son. 
"Yes — a fine boy named Chrono," said Rumfoord. 
"Chrono?" said Constant. 
"A Martian name," said Rumfoord. "He's born on Mars — by you, out of Beatrice." 
"Beatrice?" said Constant. 
"My wife," said Rumfoord. He had become quite transparent. His voice was becoming tinny, 
too, as though coming from a cheap radio. "Things fly this way and that, my boy," he said, "with 
or without messages. It's chaos, and no mistake, for the Universe is just being born. It's the great 
becoming that makes the light and the heat and the motion, and bangs you from hither to yon. 
"Predictions, predictions, predictions," said Rumfoord musingly. "Is there anything else I 
should tell you? Ohhhhh — yes, yes, yes. This child of yours, this boy named Chrono — 
"Chrono will pick up a little strip of metal on Mars — " said Rumfoord, "and he will call it his 
'goodluck piece.' Keep your eye on that good-luck piece, Mr. Constant. It's unbelievably 
important." 
Winston Niles Rumfoord vanished slowly, beginning with the ends of his fingers, and ending 
with his grin. The grin remained some time after the rest of him had gone. "See you on Titan," said the grin. And then it was gone. 
"Is it all over, Moncrief?" Mrs. Winston Niles Rumfoord called down to the butler from the 
top of the spiral staircase. "Yes, Mum — he's left," said the butler, "and the dog, too." 
"And that Mr. Constant?" said Mrs. Rumfoord — said Beatrice. She was behaving like an 
invalid — tottering, blinking hard, making her voice like wind in the treetops. She wore a long 
white dressing gown whose soft folds formed a counter-clockwise spiral in harmony with the 
white staircase. The train of the gown cascaded down the top riser, making Beatrice Continuous 
with the architecture of the mansion. 
It was her tall, straight figure that mattered most in the display. The details of her face were 
insignificant. A cannonball, substituted for her head, would have suited the grand composition as 
well. 
But Beatrice did have a face — and an interesting one. It could be said that she looked like a 
bucktoothed Indian brave. But anyone who said that would have to add quickly that she looked 
marvelous. Her face, like the face of Malachi Constant, was a one-of-a-kind, a surprising 
variation on a familiar theme — a variation that made observers think, Yes — that would be 
another very nice way for people to look. What Beatrice had done with her face, actually, was 
what any plain girl could do. She had overlaid it with dignity, suffering, intelligence, and a 
piquant dash of bitchiness. 
"Yes," said Constant from below, "that Mr. Constant is still here." He was in plain view, 
leaning against a column in the arch that opened onto the foyer. But he was so low in the 
composition, so lost in architectural details as to be almost invisible. 
"Oh!" said Beatrice. "How do you do." It was a very empty greeting. 
"How do you do," said Constant. 
"I can only appeal to your gentlemanly instincts," said Beatrice, "in asking you not to spread 
the story of your meeting with my husband far and wide. I can well understand how tremendous 
the temptation to do so must be." 
"Yes — " said Constant, "I could sell my story for a lot of money, pay off the mortgage on the 
homestead, and become an internationally famous figure. I could hob-nob with the great and 
near-great, and perform before the crowned heads of Europe." 
"You'll pardon me," said Beatrice, "if I fail to appreciate sarcasm and all the other brilliant 
nuances of your no doubt famous wit, Mr. Constant. These visits of my husband's make me ill." 
"You never see him any more, do you?" said Constant. 
"I saw him the first time he materialized," said Beatrice, "and that was enough to make me ill 
for the rest of my days." 
"I liked him very much," said Constant. 
"The insane, on occasion, are not without their charms," said Beatrice. 
"Insane?" said Constant. 
"As a man of the world, Mr. Constant," said Beatrice, "wouldn't you say that any person who 
made complicated and highly improbable prophecies was mad?" 
"Well — " said Constant, "is it really very crazy to tell a man who has access to the biggest 
space ship ever built that he's going out into space?" 
This bit of news, about the accessibility of a space ship to Constant, startled Beatrice. It 
startled her so much that she took a step back from the head of the staircase, 
separated herself 
from the rising spiral. The small step backward transformed her into what she was — a 
frightened, lonely woman in a tremendous house. "You have a space ship, do you?" she said. 
"A company I control has custody of one," said Constant. "You've heard of The Whale?" 
"Yes," said Beatrice. 
"My company sold it to the Government," said Constant. "I think they'd be delighted if 
someone would buy it back at five cents on the dollar." 
"Much luck to you on your expedition," said Beatrice. 
Constant bowed. "Much luck to you on yours," he said. 
He left without another word. In crossing the bright zodiac on the foyer floor, he sensed that 
the spiral staircase now swept down rather than up. Constant became the bottommost point in a 
whirlpool of fate. As he walked out the door, he was delightfully aware of pull. lug the aplomb 
of the Rumfoord mansion right out with him. 
Since it was foreordained that he and Beatrice were to come together again, to produce a child 
named Chrono, Constant was under no compunction to seek and woo her, to send her so much as 
a get-well card. He could go about his business, he thought, and the haughty 
Beatrice would have to damn well come to him — like any other bimbo. 
He was laughing when he put on his dark glasses and false beard and let himself out through 
the little iron door in the wall. The limousine was back, and so was the crowd. 
The police held open a narrow path to the limousine door. Constant scuttled down it, reached 
the limousine. The path closed like the Red Sea behind the Children of Israel. The cries of the 
crowd, taken together, were a collective cry of indignation and pain. The crowd, having been 
promised nothing, felt cheated, having received nothing. 
Men and boys began to rock Constant's limousine. The chauffeur put the limousine in gear, 
made it creep through the sea of raging flesh. 
A bald man made an attempt on Constant's life with a hot dog, stabbed at the window glass 
with it, splayed the bun, broke the frankfurter — left a sickly sunburst of mustard and relish. 
"Yah, yah, yah!" yelled a pretty young woman, and she showed Constant what she had 
probably never showed any other man. She showed him that her two upper front teeth were false. 
She let those two front teeth fall out of place. She shrieked like a witch. 
A boy climbed on the hood, blocking the chauffeur's view. He ripped off the windshield 
wipers, threw them to the crowd. It took the limousine three-quarters of an hour to reach a fringe 
of the crowd. And on the fringe were not the lunatics but the nearly sane. 
Only on the fringe did the shouts become coherent. 
"Tell us!" shouted a man, and he was merely fed up — not enraged. 
"We've got a right!" shouted a woman. She showed her two fine children to Constant. 
Another woman told Constant what it was the crowd felt it had a right to. "We've got a right to 
know what's going on!" she cried. 
The riot, then, was an exercise in science and theology — a seeking after clues by the living as 
to what life was all about. 
The chauffeur, seeing at last a clear road before him, pressed the accelerator to the floor. The 
limousine zoomed away. 
A huge billboard flashed by. LET'S TAKE A FRIEND TO THE CHURCH OF OUR 
CHOICE ON SUNDAY! it said. 
CHAPTER TWO CHEERS IN THE WIREHOUSE 
"Sometimes I think it is a great mistake to have matter that can think and feel. It complains so. By the same token, though, I suppose that boulders and mountains and moons could be accused of being a little too phlegmatic." 
— WINSTON NILES RUMFOORD 
The limousine zoomed north out of Newport, turned down a gravel road, kept a rendezvous with 
a helicopter that was waiting in a pasture. 
The purpose of Malachi Constant's switch from the limousine to the helicopter was to prevent 
anyone's following him, to prevent anyone's discovering who the bearded and bespectacled 
visitor to the Rumfoord estate had been. No one knew where Constant was. 
Neither the chauffeur nor the pilot knew the true identity of their passenger. Constant was Mr. 
Jonah K. Rowley to both. 
"Mist' Rowley, suh — ?" said the chauffeur, as Constant stepped out of the limousine. 
"Yes?" said Constant. 
"Wasn't you scared, suh?" said the chauffeur. 
"Scared?" said Constant, sincerely puzzled by the question. "Of what?" 
"Of what?" said the chauffeur incredulously. "Why, of all them crazy people who liked to 
lynch us." 
Constant smiled and shook his head. Not once in the midst of the violence had he expected to 
be hurt. "It hardly helps to panic, do you think?" he said. In his own words he recognized 
Rumfoord's phrasing — even a little of Rumfoord's aristocratic yodel. 
"Man — you must have some kind of guardian angel — lets you keep cool as a cucumber, no 
matter what," said the chauffeur admiringly. 
This comment interested Constant, for it described well his attitude in the midst of the mob. 
He took the comment at first as an analogy — as a poetic description of his mood. A man who 
had a guardian angel would certainly have felt just as Constant had — "Yes, suh!" said the 
chauffeur. "Sumpin' sure must be lookin' out for you!" Then it hit Constant: This was exactly the case. 
Until that moment of truth, Constant had looked upon his Newport adventure as one more 
drug-induced hallucination — as one more peyotl party — vivid, novel, 
entertaining, and of no consequence whatsoever. 
The little door had been a dreamy touch . . . the dry fountain another . . . and the huge painting 
of the all white touch-me-not little girl with the all white pony . . . and the chimney-like room 
under the spiral staircase . . . and the photograph of the three sirens on Titan . . . and Rumfoord's 
prophecies . . . and the discomfiture of Beatrice Rumfoord at the top of the stairs ... 
Malachi Constant broke into a cold sweat. His knees threatened to buckle and his eyelids came 
unhinged. He was finally understanding that every bit of it had been real! He had been calm in 
the midst of the mob because he knew he Wasn't going to die on Earth. 
Something was looking out for him, all right. 
And whatever it was, it was saving his skin for — 
Constant quaked as he counted on his fingers the points of interest on the itinerary Rumfoord 
had promised him. Mars. Then Mercury. Then Earth again. Then Titan. 
Since the itinerary ended on Titan, presumably that was where Malachi Constant was going to 
die. He was going to die there! What had Rumfoord been so cheerful about? 
Constant shuffled over to the helicopter, rocked the great, ramshackle bird as he climbed 
inside. 
"You Rowley?" said the pilot. 
"That's right," said Constant. 
"Unusual first name you got, Mr. Rowley," said the pilot. 
"Beg your pardon?" said Constant nauseously. He was looking through the plastic dome of the 
cockpit cover — looking up into the evening sky. He was wondering if there could possibly be 
eyes up there, eyes that could see everything he did. And if there were eyes up there, and they 
wanted him to do certain things, go certain places — how could they make him? 
Oh God — but it looked thin and cold up there! 
"I said you've got an unusual first name," said the pilot. 
"What name's that?" said Constant, who had forgotten the foolish first name he had chosen for 
his disguise. "Jonah," said the pilot. Fifty-nine days later, Winston Niles Rumfoord and his loyal dog Kazak 
materialized again. A lot had happened since their last visit. 
For one thing, Malachi Constant had sold out all his holdings in Galactic Spacecraft, the 
corporation that had the custody of the great rocket ship called The Whale. He had done this to 
destroy every connection between himself and the only known means of getting to Mars. He had 
put the proceeds of the sale into MoonMist Tobacco. 
For another thing, Beatrice Rumfoord had liquidated her diversified portfolio of securities, and 
had put the proceeds into shares of Galactic Spacecraft, intending thereby to get a leather-lunged 
voice in whatever was done with The Whale. For another thing, Malachi Constant had taken to writing Beatrice Rumford 
offensive letters, 
in order to keep her away — in order to make himself absolutely and permanently intolerable to 
her. To see one of these letters was to see them all. The most recent one went like this, written on 
stationery of Magnum Opus, Inc., the corporation whose sole purpose was to manage the 
financial affairs of Malachi Constant. 
Hello from sunny California, Space Baby! Gee, I am sure looking forward to jazzing a high- 
class dame like you under the twin moons of Mars. You're the only kind of dame 
I never had, and 
I'll bet your kind is the greatest. Love and kisses for a starter. Mal. 
For another thing, Beatrice had bought a capsule of cyanide — more deadly, surely, than 
Cleopatra's asp. It was Beatrice's intention to swallow it if ever she had to share so much as the 
same time zone with Malachi Constant. 
For another thing, the stock market had crashed, wiping out Beatrice Rumford, among others. 
She had bought Galactic Spacecraft shares at prices ranging from 1511⁄2 to 169. The stock had 
fallen to 6 in ten trading sessions, and now lay there, trembling fractional points. Since Beatrice 
had bought on margin as well as for cash, she had lost everything, including her Newport home. 
She had nothing left but her clothes, her good name, and her finishing school education. 
For another thing, Malachi Constant had thrown a party two days after returning to Hollywood 
— and only now, fifty-six days later, was it petering out. 
For another thing, a genuinely bearded young man named Martin Koradubian had identified 
himself as the bearded stranger who had been invited into the Rumford estate to see a 
materialization. He was a repairer of solar watches in Boston, and a charming liar. 
A magazine had bought his story for three thousand dollars, 
Sitting in Skip's Museum under the spiral staircase, Winston Niles Rumfoord read 
Koradubian's magazine story with delight and admiration. Koradubian claimed in his story that 
Rumfoord had told him about the year Ten Million A.D. 
In the year Ten Million, according to Koradubian, there would be a tremendous housecleaning. All records relating to the period between the death of Christ and the year One Million 
A.D. would be hauled to dumps and burned. This would be done, said Koradubian, because 
museums and archives would be crowding the living right off the earth. 
The million-year period to which the burned junk related would be summed up in history 
books in one sentence, according to Koradubian: Following the death of Jesus Christ, there was 
a period of readjustment that lasted for approximately one million years. Winston Niles Rumfoord laughed and laid Koradubian's article aside. Rumford 
loved nothing 
more than a thumping good fraud. "Ten Million A.D. — " he said out loud, "a great year for 
fireworks and parades and world's fairs. A merry time for cracking open cornerstones and 
digging up time capsules." 
Rumfoord wasn't talking to himself. There was someone else in Skip's Museum with him. 
The other person was his wife Beatrice. 
Beatrice was sitting in the facing wing chair. She had come downstairs to ask her husband's 
help in a time of great need. 
Rumfoord blandly changed the subject. 
Beatrice, already ghostly in a white peignoir, turned the color of lead. 
"What an optimistic animal man is!" said Rumfoord rosily. "Imagine expecting the species to 
last for ten million more years — as though people were as well-designed as turtles!" He 
shrugged. "Well — who knows — maybe human beings will last that long, just on the basis of 
pure cussedness. What's your guess?" 
"What?" said Beatrice. 
"Guess how long the human race will be around," said Rumfoord. 
From between Beatrice's clenched teeth came a frail, keen, sustained note so high as to be 
almost above the range of the human ear. The sound bore the same ghastly promise as the 
whistle of fins on a falling bomb. 
Then the explosion came. Beatrice capsized her chair, attacked the skeleton, threw it crashing 
into a corner. She cleaned off the shelves of Skip's Museum, bouncing specimens off the walls, 
trampling them on the floor. 
Rumfoord was flabbergasted. "Good God — " he said, "what made you do that?" 
"Don't you know everything?" said Beatrice hysterically. "Does anybody have to tell you 
anything? Just read my mind!" 
Rumfoord put his palms to his temples, his eyes wide. "Static — all I get is static," he said. 
"What else would there be but static!" said Beatrice. "I'm going to be thrown right out in the 
street, without even the price of a meal — and my husband laughs and wants me to play guessing 
games!" 
"It wasn't any ordinar y guessing game," said Rumford. "It was about how long the human race 
was going to last. I thought that might sort of give you more perspective about your own 
problems." 
"The hell with the human race!" said Beatrice. 
"You're a member of it, you know," said Rumfoord. 
"Then I'd like to put in for a transfer to the chimpanzees!" said Beatrice. "No chimpanzee 
husband would stand by while his wife lost all her coconuts. No chimpanzee husband would try 
to make his wife into a space whore for Malachi Constant of Hollywood, California!" 
Having said this ghastly thing, Beatrice subsided some. She wagged her head tiredly. "How 
long is the human race going to be around, Master?" 
"I don't know," said Rumfoord. 
"I thought you knew everything," said Beatrice. "Just take a look at the future." 
"I look at the future," said Rumfoord, "and I find that I shall not be in the Solar System when 
the human race dies out. So the end is as much a mystery to me as to you." 
In Hollywood, California, the chimes of the blue telephone in the rhinestone phone booth by 
Malachi Constant's swimming pool were ringing. 
It is always pitiful when any human being falls into a condition hardly more respectable than 
that of an animal. How much more pitiful it is when the person who falls has had all the 
advantages! 
Malachi Constant lay in the wide gutter of his kidney-shaped swimming pool, sleeping the 
sleep of a drunkard. There was a quarter of an inch of warm water in the gutter. Constant was 
fully dressed in blue-green evening shorts and a dinner jacket of gold brocade. His clothes were 
soaked, He was all alone. 
The pool had once been covered uniformly by an undulating blanket of gardenias. But a 
persistent morning breeze had moved the blooms to one end of the pool, as 
though folding a 
blanket to the foot of a bed. In folding back the blanket, the breeze revealed a pool bottom paved 
with broken glass, cherries, twists of lemon peel, peyotl buttons, slices of orange, stuffed olives, 
sour onions, a television set, a hypodermic syringe, and the ruins of a white grand piano. Cigar 
butts and cigarette butts, some of them marijuana, littered the surface. 
The swimming pool looked less like a facility for sport than like a punchbowl in hell. 
One of Constant's arms dangled in the pool itself. From the wrist underwater came the glint of 
his solar watch. The watch had stopped. The telephone's chimes persisted. Constant mumbled but did not move. The chimes stopped. Then, after twenty seconds, the chimes began again. Constant groaned, sat up, groaned. 
From the inside of the house came a brisk, efficient sound, high heels on a tile floor. A 
ravishing, brassy blond woman crossed from the house to the phone booth, giving Constant a 
look of haughty contempt. She was chewing gum. 
"Yah?" she said into the telephone. "Oh — it's you again. Yah — he's awake. Hey!" she yelled 
at Constant. She had a voice like a grackle. "Hey, space cadet!" she yelled. "Hm?" said Constant. "The guy who's president of that company you own wants to talk to you." "Which company?" said Constant. 
"Which company you president of?" said the woman into the telephone. She got her answer. 
"Magnum Opus," she said. "Ransom K. Fern of Magnum Opus," she said. "Tell him — tell him I'll call him back," said Constant. 
The woman told Fern, got another message to relay to Constant. "He says he's quitting." 
Constant stood unsteadily, rubbing his face with his hands. "Quitting?" he said dully. "Old 
Ransom K. Fern quitting?" 
"Yah," said the woman. She smiled hatefully. "He says you can't afford to pay his salary any 
more. He says you better come in and talk to him before he goes home." She laughed. "He says 
you're broke." 
Back in Newport, the racket of Beatrice Rumfoord's outburst had attracted Moncrief the butler 
to Skip's Museum. "You called, Mum?" he said. "It was more of a scream, Moncrief," said Beatrice. 
"She doesn't want anything, thank you," said Rumfoord. "We were simply having a spirited 
discussion." 
"How dare you say whether I want something or not?" said Beatrice hotly to Rumfoord. "I'm 
beginning to catch on that you're not nearl y as omniscient as you pretend to be. It so happens I 
want something very much. I want a number of things very much." "Mum?" said the butler. 
"I'd like you to let the dog in, please," said Beatrice. "I'd like to pet him before he goes. I 
would like to find out if a chrono-synclastic infundibula kills love in a dog the way it kills love in 
a man." 
The butler bowed and left. 
"That was a pretty scene to play before a servant," said Rumfoord. 
"By and large," said Beatrice, "my contribution to the dignity of the family has been somewhat 
greater than yours." 
Rumfoord hung his head. "I've failed you in some way? Is that what you're saying?" 
"In some way?" said Beatrice. "In ever y way!" "What would you have me do?" said Rumfoord. 
"You could have told me this stock-market crash was coming!" said Beatrice. "You could 
have spared me what I'm going through now." 
Rumfoord's hands worked in air, unhappily trying on various lines of argument for size. 
"Well?" said Beatrice. 
"I just wish we could go out to the chrono-synclastic infundibula together," said Rumfoord. 
"So you could see for once what I was talking about. All I can say is that my failure to warn you 
about the stock-market crash is as much a part of the natural order as Halley's Comet — and it 
makes an equal amount of sense to rage against either one." 
"You're saying you have no character, and no sense of responsibility toward me," said 
Beatrice. "I'm sorry to put it that way, but it's the truth." 
Rumfoord rocked his head back and forth. "A truth — but, oh God, what a punctual truth," he 
said. 
Rumfoord retreated into his magazine again. The magazine opened naturally to the center 
spread, which was a color ad for MoonMist Cigarettes. MoonMist Tobacco, Ltd., had been 
bought recently by Malachi Constant. 
Pleasure in Depth! said the headline on the ad. The picture that went with it was the picture of 
the three sirens of Titan. There they were — the white girl, the golden girl, and the brown girl. 
The fingers of the golden girl were fortuitously spread as they rested on her left 
breast, 
permitting an artist to paint in a MoonMist Cigarette between two of them. The smoke from her 
cigarette passed beneath the nostrils of the brown and white girls, and their space-annihilating 
concupiscence seemed centered on mentholated smoke alone. 
Rumfoord had known that Constant would try to debase the picture by using it in commerce. 
Constant's father had done a similar thing when he found he could not buy Leonardo's "Mona 
Lisa" at any price. The old man had punished Mona Lisa by having her used in an advertising 
campaign for suppositories. It was the free-enterprise way of handling beauty that threatened to 
get the upper hand. 
Rumfoord made a buzzing sound on his lips, which was a sound he made when he approached 
compassion. The compassion he approached was for Malachi Constant, who was having a far 
worse time of it than Beatrice. 
"Have I heard your whole defense?" said Beatrice, coming behind Rumford's chair. Her arms 
were folded, and Rumfoord, reading her mind, knew that she thought of her sharp, projected 
elbows as bullfighter's swords. "I beg your pardon?" said Rumfoord. 
"This silence — this hiding in the magazine — this is the sum and total of your rebuttal?" said 
Beatrice. 
"Rebuttal — a punctual word if there ever was one," said Rumfoord. "I say this, and then you 
rebut me, then I rebut you, then somebody else comes in and rebuts us both." He shuddered. 
"What a nightmare where everybody gets in line to rebut each other." 
"Couldn't you, this very moment," said Beatrice, "give me stock-market tips that would enable 
me to gain back everything I lost and more? If you had one shred of concern for me, couldn't you 
tell me exactly how Malachi Constant of Hollywood is going to try to trick me into going to 
Mars, so I could outwit him?" 
"Look," said Rumfoord, "life for a punctual person is like a roller coaster." He turned to shiver 
his hands in her face. "All kinds of things are going to happen to you! Sure," he said, "I can see 
the whole roller coaster you're on. And sure — I could give you a piece of paper that would tell 
you about every dip and turn, warn you about every bogeyman that was going to pop out at you 
in the tunnels. But that wouldn't help you any." "I don't see why not," said Beatrice. "Because you'd still have to take the roller-coaster ride," said Rumford. "I didn't 
design the 
roller coaster, I don't own it, and I don't say who rides and who doesn't. I just know what it's 
shaped like." 
"And Malachi Constant is part of the roller coaster?" said Beatrice. 
"Yes," said Rumfoord. 
"And there's no avoiding him?" said Beatrice. 
"No," said Rumfoord. 
"Well — suppose you tell me then, just what steps bring us together," said Beatrice, "and let 
me do what little I can." 
Rumfoord shrugged. "All right — if you wish," he said. "If it would make you feel better — 
"At this very moment," he said, "the President of the United States is announcing a New Age 
of Space to relieve unemployment. Billions of dollars are going to be spent on unmanned space 
ships, just to make work. The opening episode in this New Age of Space will be the firing of The 
Whale next Tuesday. The Whale will be renamed The Rumfoord in my honor, will be loaded with 
organ-grinder monkeys, and will be fired in the general direction of Mars. You and Constant will 
both take part in the ceremonies. You will go on board for a ceremonial inspection, and a faulty 
switch will send you on your way with the monkeys." 
It is worth stopping the narrative at this point to say that this cock-and-bull story told to 
Beatrice is one of the few known instances of Winston Niles Rumfoord's having told a lie. 
This much of Rumfoord's story was true: The Whale was going to be renamed and fired on 
Tuesday, and the President of the United States was announcing a New Age of Space. 
Some of the President's comments at the time bear repeating — and it should be remembered 
that the President gave the word "progress" a special flavor by pronouncing it prog-erse. He also 
flavored the words "chair" and "warehouse," pronouncing them cheer and wirehouse. 
"Now, some people are going around saying the American economy is old and sick," said the 
President, "and I frankly can't understand how they can say such a thing, because there is now 
more opportunity for progerse on all fronts than at any time in human history. 
"And there is one frontier we can make particular progerse on and that is the great frontier of 
space. We have been turned back by space once, but it isn't the American way to take no for an 
answer where progerse is concerned. "Now, people of faint heart come to see me every day at the White House," said 
the President, 
"and they weep and wail and say, 'Oh, Mr. President, the wirehouses are all full of automobiles 
and airplanes and kitchen appliances and various other products,' and they say, 'Oh, Mr. 
President, there is nothing more that anybody wants the factories to make because everybody 
already has two, three, and four of everything.' 
"One man in particular, I remember, was a cheer manufacturer, and he had way overproduced, 
and all he could think about was all those cheers in the wirehouse. And I said to him, 'In the next 
twenty years, the population of the world is going to double, and all those billions of new people 
are going to need things to sit down on, so you just hang on to those cheers. Meanwhile, why 
don't you forget about those cheers in the wirehouse and think about progerse in space?' 
"I said to him and I say to you and I say to everybody, 'Space can absorb the productivity of a 
trillion planets the size of earth. We could build and fire rockets forever, and never fill up space 
and never learn all there is to know about it. 
"Now, these same people who like to weep and wail so much say, 'Oh, but Mr. President, what 
about the chrono-synclastic infundibula and what about this and what about 
that?' And I say to 
them, 'If people listened to people like you, there wouldn't ever be any progerse. There wouldn't 
be the telephone or anything. And besides,' I tell them and I tell you and I tell everybody, 'we 
don't have to put people in the rocket ships. We will use the lower animals only.'" 
There was more to the speech. 
Malachi Constant of Hollywood, California, came out of the rhinestone phone booth cold 
sober. His eyes felt like cinders. His mouth tasted like horseblanket purée. He was positive that he had never seen the beautiful blond woman before. 
He asked her one of the standard questions for times of violent change. "Where is everybody?" 
he said. 
"You threw 'em all out," said the woman. 
"I did?" said Constant 
"Yah," said the woman. "You mean you drew a blank?" 
Constant nodded weakly. During the fifty-six-day party he had reached a point where he could 
draw almost nothing else. His aim had been to make himself unworthy of any destiny — 
incapable of any mission — far too ill to travel. He had succeeded to a shocking degree. 
"Oh, it was quite a show," said the woman. "You were having as good a time as 
anybody, 
helping shove the piano in the pool. Then, when it finally went in, you got this big crying jag." 
"Crying jag," echoed Constant. That was something new. 
"Yah," said the woman. "You said you had a very unhappy childhood, and made everybody 
listen to how unhappy it was. How your father never even threw a ball to you once — any kind 
of ball. Half the time nobody could understand you, but every time somebody could understand 
you, it was about how there never was any kind of ball. 
"Then you talked about your mother," said the woman, "and you said if she was a whore, then 
you were proud to be a son of a whore, if that's what a whore was. Then you said you'd give an 
oil well to any woman who'd come up to you and shake your hand and say real loud, so 
everybody could hear, 'I'm a whore, just like your mother was.'" "What happened then?" said Constant. 
"You gave an oil well to every woman at the party," said the woman. "And then you started 
crying worse than ever, and you picked me out, and you told everybody I was the only person in 
the whole Solar System you could trust. You said everybody else was just waiting for you to fall 
asleep, so they could put you on a rocket ship and shoot you at Mars. Then you 
made everybody go home but me. Servants and everybody. 
"Then we flew down to Mexico and got married, and then we came back here," she said. 
"Now I find out you haven't got a pot to piss in or a window to throw it out of. You better go 
down to the office and find out what the hell is going on, on account of my boyfriend is a 
gangster, and he'll kill you if I tell him you aren't providing for me right. 
"Hell," she said, "I had an unhappier childhood than you did. My mother was a whore and my 
father never came home, either — but we were poor besides. At least you had billions of 
dollars." 
In Newport, Beatrice Rumfoord turned her back to her husband. She stood on the threshold of 
Skip's Museum, facing the corridor. Down the corridor came the sound of the butler's voice. The 
butler was standing in the front doorway, calling to Kazak, the hound of space. 
"I know a little something about roller coasters, too," Beatrice said. 
"That's good," said Rumfoord emptily. 
"When I was ten years old," said Beatrice, "my father got it into his head that it would be fun 
for me to ride a roller coaster. We were summering on Cape Cod, and we drove over to an 
amusement park outside of Fall River. "He bought two tickets on the roller coaster. He was going to ride with me. 
"I took one look at the roller coaster," said Beatrice, "and it looked silly and dirty and 
dangerous, and I simply refused to get on. My own father couldn't make me get on," said 
Beatrice, "even though he was Chairman of the Board of the New York Central Railroad. 
"We turned around and came home," said Beatrice proudly. Her eyes glittered, and she nodded 
abruptly. "That's the way to treat roller coasters," she said. 
She stalked out of Skip's Museum, went to the foyer to await the arrival of Kazak. 
In a moment, she felt the electric presence of her husband behind her. 
"Bea — " he said, "if I seem indifferent to your misfortunes, it's only because I know how well 
things are going to turn out in the end. If it seems crude of me not to hate the idea of your pairing 
off with Constant, it's only an humble admission on my part that he's going to make you a far 
better husband than I ever was or will be. 
"Look forward to being really in love for the first time, Bea," said Rumford. "Look forward to 
behaving aristocratically without any outward proofs of your aristocracy. Look forward to 
having nothing but the dignity and intelligence and tenderness that God gave you 
— look 
forward to taking those materials and nothing else, and making something exquisite with them." 
Rumfoord groaned tinnily. He was becoming insubstantial. "Oh, God — " he said, "you talk 
about roller coasters — 
"Stop and think sometime about the roller coaster I'm on. Some day on Titan, it will be 
revealed to you just how ruthlessly I've been used, and by whom, and to what disgustingly paltry 
ends." 
Kazak now flung himself into the house, flews flapping. He landed skidding on the polished 
floor. 
He ran in place, trying to make a right-angle turn in Beatrice's direction. Faster and faster he 
ran, and still he could get no traction. He became translucent. 
He began to shrink, to fizz crazily on the foyer floor like a ping-pong ball in a frying pan 
Then he disappeared. There was no dog any more. Without looking behind, Beatrice knew that her husband had disappeared, too. 
"Kazak?" she said faintly. She snapped her fingers, as though to attract a dog. Her fingers were 
too weak to make a sound. "Nice doggy," she whispered. 
CHAPTER THREE UNITED HOTCAKE PREFERRED 
"Son — they say there isn't any royalty in this country, but do you want me to tell you how to be king of the United States of America? Just fall through the hole in a privy and come out smelling like a rose." 
— NOEL CONSTANT 
Magnum Opus, the Los Angeles Corporation that managed Malachi Constant's financial affairs, 
was founded by Malachi's father. It had a thirty-one-story building for its home. While Magnum 
Opus owned the whole building, it used only the top three floors, renting out the rest to 
corporations it controlled. 
Some of these corporations, having been sold recently by Magnum Opus, were moving out. 
Others, having been bought recently by Magnum Opus, were moving in. 
Among the tenants were Galactic Spacecraft, Moon-Mist Tobacco, Fandango Petroleum, 
Lennox Mono — rail, Fry-Kwik, Sani-Maid Pharmaceuticals, Lewis and Marvin Sulfur, Dupree 
Electronics, Universal Piezoelectric, Psychokinesis Unlimited, Ed Muir Associates, Max-Mor 
Machine Tools, Wilkinson Paint and Varnish, American Levitation, Flo-Fast, King O'Leisure 
Shirts, and the Emblem Supreme Casualty and Life Assurance Company of California. 
The Magnum Opus Building was a slender, prismatic, twelve-sided shaft, faced on all twelve 
sides with blue-green glass that shaded to rose at the base. The twelve sides were said by the 
architect to represent the twelve great religions of the world. So far, no one had asked the 
architect to name them. 
That was lucky, because he couldn't have done it. 
There was a private heliport on top. 
The shadow and flutter of Constant's helicopter settling to the heliport seemed to many of the 
people below to be like the shadow and flutter of the Bright Angel of Death. It seemed that way 
because of the stock-market crash, because money and jobs were so scarce — 
And it seemed especially that way to them because the things that had crashed the hardest, that 
had pulled everything down with them, were the enterprises of Malachi Constant. 
Constant was flying his own helicopter, since all his servants had quit the night before. 
Constant was flying it badly. He set it down with a crash that sent shivers through the building. 
He was arriving for a conference with Ransom K. Fern, President of Magnum Opus. 
Fern waited for Constant on the thirty-first floor — a single, vast room that was Constant's 
office. 
The office was spookily furnished, since none of the furniture had legs. Everything was 
suspended magnetically at the proper height. The tables and the desk and the bar and the couches 
were floating slabs. The chairs were tilted, floating bowls. And most eerie of all, pencils and 
pads were scattered at random through the air, ready to be snatched by anyone who had an idea 
worth writing down. 
The carpet was as green as grass for. the simple reason that it was grass — living grass as lush 
as any putting green. 
Malachi Constant sank from the heliport deck to his office in a private elevator. When the 
elevator door whispered open, Constant was startled by the legless furnishings, by the floating 
pencils and pads. He had not been in his office for eight weeks. Somebody had refurnished the 
place. 
Ransom K. Fern, aging President of Magnum Opus, stood at a floor-to-ceiling window, 
looking out over the city. He wore his black Homburg hat and his black Chesterfield coat. He 
carried his whangee walking stick at port arms. He was exceedingly thin — always had been. 
"A butt like two beebees," Malachi Constant's father Noel had said of Fern. "Ransom K. Fern 
is like a camel who has burned up both his humps, and now he's burning up everything else but 
his hair and eyeballs." 
According to figures released by the Bureau of Internal Revenue, Fern was the highest-paid 
executive in the country. He had a salary of a flat million dollars a year — plus stock-option 
plans and cost-of-living adjustments. 
He had joined Magnum Opus when he was twenty-two years old. He was sixty now. 
"Some — somebody's changed all the furniture," said Constant. 
"Yes," said Fern, still looking out over the city, "somebody changed it." 
"You?" said Constant. 
Fern sniffed, took his time about answering. "I thought we ought to demonstrate our loyalty to 
some of our own products." 
"I — I never saw anything like it," said Constant. "No legs — just floating in air." 
"Magnetism, you know," said Fern. 
"Why — why I think it looks wonderful, now that I'm getting used to it," said Constant. "And 
some company we own makes this stuff?" 
"American Levitation Company," said Fern. "You said to buy it, so we bought it." 
Ransom K. Fern turned away from the window. His face was a troubling combination of youth 
and age. There was no sign in the face of any intermediate stages in the aging process, no hint of 
the man of thirty or forty or fifty who had been left behind. Only adolescence and the age of 
sixty were represented. It was as though a seventeen-year-old had been withered and bleached by 
a blast of heat. 
Fern read two books a day. It has been said that Aristotle was the last man to be familiar with 
the whole of his own culture. Ransom K. Fern had made an impressive attempt to equal 
Aristotle's achievement. He had been somewhat less successful than Aristotle in perceiving 
patterns in what he knew. 
The intellectual mountain had labored to produce a philosophical mouse — and Fern was the 
first to admit that it was a mouse, and a mangy mouse at that. As Fern expressed the philosophy 
conversationally, in its simplest terms: 
"You go up to a man, and you say, 'How are things going, Joe?' And he says, 'Oh, fine, fine — 
couldn't be better.' And you look into his eyes, and you see things really couldn't be much worse. 
When you get right down to it, everybody's having a perfectly lousy time of it, and I mean 
everybody. And the hell of it is, nothing seems to help much." 
This philosophy did not sadden him. It did not make him brood. 
It made him heartlessly watchful. 
It helped in business, too — for it let Fern assume automatically that the other fellow was far 
weaker and. far more bored than he seemed. 
Sometimes, too, people with strong stomachs, found Fern's murmured asides funny. 
His situation, working for Noel Constant and then Malachi, conspired nicely to make almost 
anything he might say bitterly funny — for he was superior to Constant pére and fils in every 
respect but one, and the respect excepted was the only one that really mattered. The Constants — 
ignorant, vulgar, and brash — had copious quantities of dumb luck. Or had had up to now. 
Malachi Constant had still to get it through his head that his luck was gone — every bit of it. 
He had still to get it through his head, despite the hideous news Fern had given him on the 
telephone. 
"Gee," said Constant ingenuously, "the more I look at this furniture, the more I like it. This 
stuff should sell like hotcakes." There was something pathetic and repellent about Malachi 
Constant's talking business. It had been the same with his father. Old Noel Constant had never 
known anything about business, and neither had his son — and what little charm the Constants 
had evaporated the instant they pretended that their successes depended on their knowing their 
elbows from third base. 
There was something obscene about a billionaire's being optimistic and aggressive and 
cunning. 
"If you ask me," said Constant, "that was a pretty sound investment — a company that makes 
furniture like this." 
"United Hotcake preferred," said Fern. United Hotcake preferred was a favorite joke of his. 
Whenever people came to him, begging for investment advice that would double their money in 
six weeks, he advised them gravely to invest in this fictitious stock. Some people actually tried to 
follow his advice. "Sitting on an American Levitation couch is harder than standing up in a 
birchbark canoe," 
said Fern dryly. "Throw yourself into one of these so-called chairs, and it will bounce you off the 
wall like a stone Out of a slingshot. Sit on the edge of your desk, and it will waltz you around the 
room like a Wright brother at Kitty Hawk." 
Constant touched his desk ever so lightly. It shuddered nervously. 
"Well — they still haven't got all of the bugs out of it, that's all," said Constant. 
"Truer words were never spoken," said Fern. 
Constant now made a plea that he had never had to make before. "A guy is entitled to a 
mistake now and then," he said. 
"Now and then?" said Fern, raising his eyebrows. "For three months you have made nothing 
but wrong decisions, and you've done what I would have said was impossible. You've succeeded 
in more than wiping out the results of almost forty years of inspired guessing." 
Ransom K. Fern took a pencil from the air and broke it in two. "Magnum Opus is no more. 
You and I are the last two people in the building. Everyone else has been paid off and sent 
home." 
He bowed and moved toward the door. "The switchboard has been arranged so that all 
incoming calls will come directly to your desk here. And when you leave, Mr. 
Constant, sir, remember to turn out the lights and lock the front door." A history of Magnum Opus, Inc., is perhaps in order at this point. 
Magnum Opus began as an idea in the head of a Yankee traveling salesman of copperbottomed cookware. That Yankee was Noel Constant, a native of New Bedford, Massachusetts. 
He was the father of Malachi. 
The father of Noel, in turn, was Sylvanus Constant, a loom fixer in the New Bedford Mills of 
the Nattaweena Division of the Grand Republic Woolen Company. He was an anarchist, though 
he never got into any trouble about it, except with his wife. 
The family could trace its line back through an illegitimacy to Benjamin Constant, who was a 
tribune under Napoleon from 1799 to 1801, and a lover of Anne Louise Germaine Necker, 
Baronne de Stael-Holstein, wife of the then Swedish ambassador to France. 
One night in Los Angeles, at any rate, Noel Constant got it into his head to become a 
speculator. He was thirty-nine at the time, single, physically and morally unattractive, and a 
business failure. The idea of becoming a speculator came to him as he sat all alone on a narrow 
bed in Room 223 of the Wilburhampton Hotel. 
The most valuable corporate structure ever to be owned by one man could not have had 
humbler headquarters in the beginning. Room 223 of the Wilburhampton was eleven feet long 
and eight feet wide, and had neither telephone nor desk. 
What it did have was a bed, a three-drawer dresser, old newspapers lining the drawers, and, in 
the bottom drawer, a Gideon Bible. The newspaper page that lined the middle drawer was a page 
of stock-market quotations from fourteen years before. 
There is a riddle about a man who is locked in a room with nothing but a bed and a calendar, 
and the question is: How does he survive? 
The answer is: He eats dates from the calendar and drinks water from the springs of the bed. 
This comes very close to describing the genesis of Magnum Opus. The materials with which 
Noel Constant built his fortune were hardly more nourishing in themselves than calendar dates 
and bedsprings. 
Magnum Opus was built with a pen, a check book, some check-sized Government envelopes, 
a Gideon Bible, and a bank balance of eight thousand, two hundred and twelve dollars. 
The bank balance was Noel Constant's share in the estate of his anarchist father. The estate 
had consisted principally of Government bonds. And Noel Constant had an investment program. It was simplicity itself. The 
Bible would be his investment counselor. 
There are those who have concluded, after studying Noel Constant's investment pattern, that 
he was either a genius or had a superb system of industrial spies. 
He invariably picked the stock market's most brilliant performers days or hours before their 
performances began. In twelve months, rarely leaving Room 223 in the Wilburhampton Hotel, he 
increased his fortune to a million and a quarter. Noel Constant did it without genius and without spies. 
His system was so idiotically simple that some people can't understand it, no matter how often 
it is explained. The people who can't understand it are people who have to believe, for their own 
peace of mind, that tremendous wealth can be produced only by tremendous cleverness. 
This was Noel Constant's system: 
He took the Gideon Bible that was in his room, and he started with the first sentence in 
Genesis, 
The first sentence in Genesis, as some people may know, is: "In the beginning God created the 
heaven and the earth." Noel Constant wrote the sentence in capital letters, put periods between 
the letters, divided the letters into pairs, rendering the sentence as follows: "I.N., T.H., E.B., 
E.G., I.N., N.I., N.G., G.O., D.C., R.E., A.T., E.D., T.H., E.H., E.A., V.E., N.A., N.D., T.H., 
E.E., A.R., T.H." 
And then he looked for corporations with those initials, and bought shares in them. His rule at 
the beginning was that he would own shares in only one corporation at a time, would invest his 
whole nest-egg in it, and would sell the instant the value of his shares had doubled. 
His very first investment was International Nitrate. After that came Trowbridge Helicopter, 
Electra Bakeries, Eternity Granite, Indiana Novelty, Norwich Iron, National Gelatin, Granada 
Oil, Del-Mar Creations, Richmond Electroplating,' Anderson Trailer, and Eagle Duplicating. 
His program for the next twelve months was this: Trowbridge Helicopter again, ELCO Hoist, 
Engineering Associates, Vickery Electronics, National Alum, National Dredging, Trowbridge 
Helicopter again. 
The third time he bought Trowbridge Helicopter, he didn't buy a piece of it. He bought the 
whole thing — lock, stock, and barrel. Two days after that, the company landed a long-term Government contract for 
intercontinental 
ballistic missiles, a contract that made the company worth, conservatively, fifty- nine million 
dollars. Noel Constant had bought the company for twenty-two million. 
The only executive decision he ever made relative to the company was contained in an order 
written on a picture postcard of the Wilburhampton Hotel. The card was addressed to the 
president of the company, telling him to change the name of the company to Galactic Spacecraft, 
Inc., since the company had long since outgrown both Trowbridges and helicopters. 
Small as this exercise of authority was, it was significant, for it showed that Constant had at 
last become interested in something he owned. And, though his holdings in the firm had more 
than doubled in value, he did not sell them all. He sold only forty-nine per cent of them. 
Thereafter, he continued to take the advice of his Gideon Bible, but he kept big pieces of any 
firm he really liked. 
During his first two years in Room 223 of the Wilburhampton, Noel Constant had only one 
visitor. That visitor did not know he was rich. His one visitor was a chambermaid named 
Florence Whitehill, who spent one night out of ten with him for a small, flat fee. 
Florence, like everyone else in the Wilburhampton, believed him when he said he was a trader 
in stamps. Personal hygiene was not Noel Constant's strongest Suit. It was easy to believe that 
his work brought him into regular contact with mucilage. 
The only people who knew how rich he was were employees of the Bureau of Internal 
Revenue and of the august accounting firm of Clough and Higgins. Then, after two years, Noel Constant received his second visitor in Room 223. 
The second visitor was a thin and watchful blue-eyed man of twenty-two. He engaged Noel 
Constant's serious attention by announcing that he was from the United States Bureau of Internal 
Revenue. 
Constant invited the young man into his room, motioned for him to sit on the bed. He himself 
remained standing. 
"They sent a child, did they?" said Noel Constant. The visitor was not offended. He turned the 
gibe to his own advantage, using it in an image of himself that was chilling indeed. "A child with 
a heart of stone and a mind as quick as a mongoose, Mr. Constant," he said. "I have also been to 
Harvard Business School." 
"That may be so," said Constant, "but I don't think you can hurt me. I don't owe the Federal 
Government a dime." 
The callow visitor nodded. "I know," he said. "I found everything in apple-pie order." 
The young man looked around the room. He wasn't surprised by its squalor. He was worldly 
enough to have expected something diseased. 
"I've been over your income-tax reports for the past two years," he said, "and, by my 
calculations, you are the luckiest man who ever lived." "Lucky?" said Noel Constant. 
"I think so," said the young visitor. "Don't you think so? For instance — what does ELCO 
Hoist Company manufacture?" "ELCO Hoist?" said Noel Constant blankly. 
"You owned fifty-three per cent of it for a period of two months," said the young visitor. 
"Why — hoists — things for lifting various articles," said Noel Constant stuffily. "And 
various allied products." 
The young visitor's smile made cat's whiskers under his nose. "For your information," he said, 
"ELCO Hoist Company was a name given by the Government in the last war to a top-secret 
laboratory that was developing underwater listening gear. After the war, it was sold' to private 
enterprise, and the name was never changed — since the work was still top secret, and the only 
customer was still the Government. 
"Suppose you tell me," said the young visitor, "what it was you learned about Indiana Novelty 
that made you think it was a shrewd investment? Did you think they made little party poppers 
with paper hats inside?" 
"I have to answer these questions for the Bureau of Internal Revenue?" said Noel Constant. "I 
have to describe every company I owned in detail, or I can't keep the money?" 
"I was simply asking for my own curiosity. From your reaction, I gather that you haven't the 
remotest idea what Indiana Novelty does. For your information, Indiana Novelty manufactures 
nothing, but holds certain key patents on tire-recapping machinery." 
"Suppose we get down to the Bureau of Internal Revenue business," said Noel Constant curtly. 
"I'm no longer with the Bureau," said the young visitor. "I resigned my one hundred-andfourteen-dollar-a-week job this morning in order to take a job making two thousand dollars a 
week." "Working for whom?" said Noel Constant. 
"Working for you," said the young man. He stood, held out his hand. "Ransom K. Fern is the 
name," he said. 
"I had a professor in the Harvard Business School," said young Fern to Noel Constant, "who 
kept telling me that I was smart, but that I would have to find my boy, if I was going to be rich. 
He wouldn't explain what he meant. He said I would catch on sooner or later. I asked him how I 
could go looking for my boy, and he suggested that I work for the Bureau of Internal Revenue 
for a year or so. 
"When I went over your tax returns, Mr. Constant, it suddenly came to me what it was he 
meant. He meant I was shrewd and thorough, but I wasn't remarkably lucky. I had to find 
somebody who had luck in an astonishing degree — and so I have." 
"Why should I pay you two thousand dollars a week?" said Noel Constant. "You see my 
facilities and my staff here, and you know what I've done with them." 
"Yes — " said Fern, "and I can show you where you should have made two hundred million 
where you made only fifty-nine. You know absolutely nothing about corporate law or tax law — 
or even commonsense business procedure." 
Fern thereupon proved this to Noel Constant, father of Malachi — and Fern showed him an 
organizational plan that had the name Magnum Opus, Incorporated. It was a marvelous engine 
for doing violence to the spirit of thousands of laws without actually running afoul of so much as 
a city ordinance. 
Noel Constant was so impressed by this monument to hypocrisy and sharp practice that he 
wanted to buy stock in it without even referring to his Bible. 
"Mr. Constant, sir," said young Fern, "don't you understand? Magnum Opus is you, with you 
as chairman of the board, with me as president. 
"Mr. Constant," he said, "right now you're as easy for the Bureau of Internal Revenue to watch 
as a man on a street corner selling apples and pears. But just imagine how hard you would be to 
watch if you had a whole office building jammed to the rafters with industrial bureaucrats — 
men who lose things and use the wrong forms and create new forms and demand everything in 
quintuplicate, and who understand perhaps a third of what is said to them; who habitually give 
misleading answers in order to gain time in which to think, who make decisions only when 
forced to, and who then cover their tracks; who make perfectly honest mistakes in addition and 
subtraction, who call meetings whenever they feel lonely, who write memos whenever they feel 
unloved; men who never throw anything away unless they think it could get 
them fired. A single 
industrial bureaucrat, if he is sufficiently vital and nervous, should be able to create a ton of 
meaningless papers a year for the Bureau of Internal Revenue to examine. In the Magnum Opus 
Building, we will have thousands of them! And you and I can have the top two stories, and you 
can go on keeping track of what's really going on the way you do now." He looked around the 
room. "How do you keep track now, by the way — writing with a burnt match on the margins of 
a telephone directory?" "In my head," said Noel Constant. 
"There is one more advantage I have yet to point out," said Fern. "Some day your luck is going 
to run out. And then you're going to need the shrewdest, most thorough manager you can hire — 
or you'll crash all the way back to pots and pans." 
"You're hired," said Noel Constant, father of Malachi. 
"Now, where should we erect the building?" said Fern. 
"I own this hotel, and this hotel owns the lot across the street," said Noel Constant. "Build it 
on the lot across the Street." He held up an index finger as crooked as a crankshaft. "There's just 
one thing — " 
"Yes, sir?" said Fern. "I'm not moving into it," said Noel Constant. "I'm staying right here." 
Those who want more detailed histories of Magnum Opus, Inc., can go to their public libraries 
and ask for either Lavina Waters' romantic Too Wild a Dream? or Crowther Gomburg's harsh 
Primordial Scales. Miss Waters' volume, while fuddled as to business details, contains the better 
account of the 
chambermaid Florence Whitehill's discovery that she was pregnant by Noel Constant, and her 
discovery that Noel Constant was a multi-multi-millionaire. 
Noel Constant married the chambermaid,, gave her a mansion and a checking account with a 
million dollars in it. He told her to name the child Malachi if it was a boy, and Prudence if it was 
a girl. He asked her to please keep coming to see him once every ten days in Room 223 of the 
Wilburhampton Hotel, but not to bring the baby. 
Gomburg's book, while first-rate on business details, suffers from Gomburg's central thesis, to 
the effect that Magnum Opus was a product of a complex of inabilities to love. Reading between 
the lines of Gomburg's book, it is increasingly clear that Gomburg is himself unloved and unable 
to love. 
Neither Miss Waters nor Gomburg, incidentally, discovered Noel Constant's investment 
method. Ransom K. Fern never discovered it either, though he tried hard enough. 
The only person Noel Constant ever told was his son, Malachi, on Malachi's twenty-first 
birthday. That birthday party of two took place in Room 223 of the Wilburhampton. It was the 
first time father and son had ever met. Malachi had come to see Noel by invitation. 
Human emotions being what they are, young Malachi Constant paid more attention to a detail 
in the room's furnishings than he did to the secret of how to make millions or even billions of 
dollars. 
The money-making secret was so simple-minded to begin with, that it didn't require much 
attention. The most complicated part of it had to do with the manner in which young Malachi 
was to pick up the torch of Magnum Opus when Noel had, at long last, laid it down. Young 
Malachi was to ask Ransom K. Fern for a chronological list of the investments of Magnum Opus, 
and, reading down the margin, young Malachi would learn just how far otd Noel had gone in the 
Bible, and where young Malachi should begin. The detail in the furnishings of Room 223 that interested young Malachi so was 
a photograph 
of himself. It was a photograph of himself at the age of three — a photograph of a sweet, 
pleasant, game little boy on an ocean beach. 
It was thumbtacked to the wall. 
It was the only picture in the room. 
Old Noel saw young Malachi looking at the picture, and was confused and embarrassed by the 
whole thing about fathers and sons. He ransacked his mind for something good to. say, and 
found almost nothing. 
"My father gave me only two pieces of advice," he said, "and only one of them has stood the 
test of time. They were: 'Don't touch your principal,' and 'Keep the liquor bottle out of the 
bedroom.'" His embarrassment and confusion were now too great to be borne. "Good-by," he 
said abruptly. "Good-by?" said young Malachi, startled. He moved toward the door. 
"Keep the liquor bottle out of the bedroom," said the old man, and he turned his back. 
"Yes, sir, I will," said young Malachi. "Good-by, sir," he said, and he left. That was the first and last time that Malachi Constant ever saw his father. His father lived for five more years, and the Bible never played him false. 
Noel Constant died just as he reached the end of this sentence: "And God made two great 
lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars 
also." His last investment was in Sonnyboy Oil at 17 1/4. 
The son took over where the father had left off, though Malachi Constant did not move into 
Room 223 in the Wilburhampton. 
And, for five years, the luck of the son was as sensational as the luck of the father had been. 
And now, suddenly, Magnum Opus lay in ruins. 
There in his office, with the floating furniture and the grass carpet, Malachi Constant still 
could not believe that his luck had run out. 
"Nothing left?" he said faintly. He managed to smile at Ransom K. Fern. "Come on, guy — I 
mean there's got to be something left." 
"I thought so, too, at ten o'clock this morning," said Fern. "I was congratulating myself on 
having buttressed Magnum Opus against any conceivable blow. We were weathering the 
depression quite nicely — yes, and your mistakes, too. 
"And then, at ten-fifteen, I was visited by a lawyer who was apparently at your party last 
night. You, apparently, were giving away oil wells last night, and the lawyer was thoughtful 
enough to draw up documents which, if signed by you, would be binding. They were signed by 
you. You gave away five hundred and thirty-one producing oil wells last night, which wiped out 
Fandango Petroleum. 
"At eleven," said Fern, "the President of the United States announced that Galactic Spacecraft, 
which we had sold, was receiving a three-billion contract for the New Age of Space. 
"At eleven-thirty," said Fern, "I was given a copy of The Journal of the American Medical 
Association, which was marked by our public relations director, 'FYI.' These three letters, as you 
would know if you had ever spent any time in your office, mean 'for your information.' I turned 
to the page referred to, and learned, for my information, that MoonMist Cigarettes were not a 
cause but the principal cause of sterility in both sexes wherever MoonMist cigarettes were sold. 
This fact was discovered not by human beings but by a computing machine. Whenever data 
about cigarette smoking was fed into it, the machine grew tremendously excited, and no one 
could figure out why. The machine was obviously trying to tell its operators something. It did 
everything it could to express itself, and finally managed to get its operators to ask it the right 
questions. 
"The right questions had to do with the relationship of MoonMist Cigarettes to human 
reproduction. The relationship was this: 
"People who smoked MoonMist Cigarettes couldn't have children, even if they wanted them," 
said Fern. 
"Doubtless," said Fern, "there are gigolos and party girls and New Yorkers who are grateful 
for this relief from biology. In the opinion of the Legal Department of Magnum Opus, before that 
department was liquidated, however, there are several million persons who can sue successfully 
— on the grounds that Moon-Mist Cigarettes did them out of something rather valuable. Pleasure 
in depth, indeed. 
"There are approximately ten million ex-smokers of MoonMist in this country," said Fern, "all 
sterile. If one in ten sues you for damages beyond price, sues you for the modest sum of five 
thousand dollars — the bill will be five billion dollars, excluding legal fees. And you haven't got 
five billion dollars. Since the stock-market crash and your acquisition of such properties as 
American Levitation, you aren't worth even five hundred million. 
"MoonMist Tobacco," said Fern, "that's you. Magnum Opus," said Fern, "that's you, too. All 
the things you are are going to be sued and sued successfully. And, while the litigants may not be 
able to get blood from turnips, they can certainly ruin the turnips in the process of trying." 
Fern bowed again. "I now perform my last official duty, which is to inform you that your 
father wrote you a letter which was to be given to you only if your luck turned for the worse. My 
instructions were to place that letter under the pillow in Room 223 in the Wilburhampton, if your 
luck ever really turned sour. I placed the letter under the pillow an hour ago. 
"And I will now, as an humble and loyal corporate servant, ask you for one small favor," said 
Fern. "If the letter seems to cast the vaguest light on what life might be about, I would appreciate 
your telephoning me at home." 
Ransom K. Fern saluted by touching the shaft of his cane to his Homburg hat. "Good-by, Mr. 
Magnum Opus, Jr. Good-by." 
The Wilburhampton Hotel was a frumpish, three-story Tudor structure across the street from 
the Magnum Opus Building, standing in relation to that build-jug like an unmade bed at the feet 
of the Archangel Gabriel. Pine slats were tacked to the stucco exterior of the hotel, simulating 
half-timbered construction. The backbone of the roof had been broken intentionally, simulating 
great age. The eaves were plump and low, tucked under, simulated thatch. The windows were 
tiny, with diamond-shaped panes. The hotel's small cocktail lounge was known as the Hear Ye Room. 
In the Hear Ye Room were three people — a bartender and two customers. The two customers 
were a thin woman and a fat man — both seemingly old. Nobody in the Wilburhampton had ever 
seen them before, but it already seemed as though they had been sitting in the Hear Ye Room for 
years. Their protective coloration was perfect, for they looked half-timbered and broken-backed 
and thatched and little-windowed, too. 
They claimed to be pensioned-off teachers from the same high school in the Middle West. The 
fat man introduced himself as George M. Helmholtz, a former bandmaster. The thin woman 
introduced herself as Roberta Wiley, a former teacher of algebra. 
They had obviously discovered the consolations of alcohol and cynicism late in life. They 
never ordered the same drink twice, were avid to know what was in this bottle and what was in 
that one — to know what a golden dawn punch was, and a Helen Twelvetrees, and a plui d'or, 
and a merry widow fizz. 
The bartender knew they weren't alcoholics. He was familiar with the type, and loved the type: 
they were simply two Saturday Evening Post characters at the end of the road. When they weren't asking questions about the different things to drink, they 
were 
indistinguishable from millions of other American barflies on the first day of the New Age of 
Space. They sat solidly on their barstools, staring straight ahead at the ranks of bottles. Their lips 
moved constantly — experimenting dismayingly with irrelevant grins and grimaces and sneers. 
Evangelist Bobby Denton's image of Earth as God's space ship was an apt one — particularly 
with reference to barflies. Helmholtz and Miss Wiley were behaving like pilot and co-pilot of an 
enormously pointless voyage through space that was expected to take forever. It was easy to 
believe that they had begun the voyage nattily, flushed with youth and technical training, and 
that the bottles before them were the instruments they had been watching for years and years and 
years. It was easy to believe that each day had found the space boy and the space girl 
microscopically more slovenly than the day before, until now, when they were the shame of the 
Pan-Galactic Space Service. 
Two buttons on Helmholtz's fly were open. There was shaving cream in his left ear. His socks 
did not match. 
Miss Wiley was a crazy-looking little old lady with a lantern jaw. She wore a frizzy black wig 
that looked as though it had been nailed to a farmer's barn door for years. 
"I see where the President has ordered a whole brand-new Age of Space to begin, to see if that 
won't help the unemployment picture some," said the bartender. "Uh, huh," said Helmholtz and Miss Wiley simultaneously. 
Only an observant and suspicious person would have noticed a false note in the behavior of 
the two: Helmholtz and Miss Wiley were too interested in time. For people who had nothing 
much to do and nowhere much to go, they were extraordinarily interested in their watches — 
Miss Wiley in her mannish wrist watch, Mr. Helmholtz in his gold pocket watch, 
The truth of the matter was that Helmholtz and Miss Wiley weren't retired school teachers at 
all. They were both males, both masters of disguise. They were crack agents for the Army of 
Mars, the eyes and ears for a Martian press gang that hovered in a flying saucer two hundred 
miles overhead, Malachi Constant didn't know it, but they were waiting for him. 
Helmholtz and Wiley did not accost Malachi Constant when he crossed the Street to the 
Wilburhampton. They gave no sign that he mattered to them. They let him cross the lobby and 
board the elevator without giving him a glance. 
They did, however, glance at their watches again — and an observant and suspicious person 
would have noticed that Miss Wiley pressed a button on her watch, starting a stopwatch hand on 
its twitching rounds. 
Helmholtz and Miss Wiley were not about to use violence on Malachi Constant. They had 
never used violence on anyone, and had still recruited fourteen thousand persons for Mars. 
Their usual technique was to dress like civil engineers and offer not-quite-bright men and 
women nine dollars an hour, tax free, plus food and shelter and transportation, to work on a 
secret Government project in a remote part of the world for three years. It was a joke between 
Helmholtz and Miss Wiley that they had never specified what government was organizing the 
project, and that no recruit had ever thought to ask. Ninety-nine per cent of the recruits were given amnesia upon arriving on Mars. 
Their 
memories were cleaned out by mental-health experts, and Martian. surgeons installed radio 
antennas in their skulls in order that the recruits might be radio-controlled. 
And then the recruits were given new names in the most haphazard fashion, and were assigned 
to the factories, the construction gangs, the administrative staff, or to the Army of Mars. 
The few recruits who were not treated in this way were those who demonstrated ardently that 
they would serve Mars heroically without being doctored at all. Those lucky few were welcomed 
into the secret circle of those in command. 
Secret agents Helmholtz and Wiley belonged to this circle. They were in full possession of 
their memories, and they were not radio-controlled. They adored their work, just as they were. 
"What's that there Slivovitz like?" Helmholtz asked the bartender, squinting at a dusty bottle 
on the bottom row. He had just finished a sloe gin rickey. 
"I didn't even know we had it," said the bartender. He put the bottle on the bar, tilting it away 
from himself so he could read the label. "Prune brandy," he said. "Believe I'll try that next," said Helmholtz. 
Ever since the death of Noel Constant, Room 223 in the Wilburhampton had been left empty 
— as a memorial. 
Malachi Constant now let himself into Room 223. He had not been in the room since the death 
of his father. He closed the door behind him, and found the letter under the pillow. 
Nothing in the room had been changed but the linen. The picture of Malachi as a little boy on 
the beach was still the only picture on the wall. 
The letter said: 
Dear Son: Something big and bad has happened to you or you wouldn't be reading this letter. 
I am writing this letter to tell you to calm down about the bad things and kind of look around and 
see if something good or something important anyway happened on account of we got so rich 
and then lost the boodle again. What I want you to try and find out is, is there anything special 
going on or is it all just as crazy as it looked to me? 
If I wasn't a very good father or a very good anything that was because I was as good as dead 
'for a long time before I died. Nobody loved me and I wasn't very good at anything and I couldn't 
find any hobbies I liked and I was sick and tired of selling pots and pans and watching television 
so I was as good as dead and I was too far gone to ever come back. That is when I started the business with the Bible and you know what happened 
after that. It 
looked as though somebody or something wanted me to own the whole planet even though I was 
as good as dead. I kept my eyes open for some kind of signal that would tell me what it was all 
about but there wasn't any signal. I just went on getting richer and richer. 
And then your mother sent me that picture of you on the beach and the way you looked at me 
out of that picture made me think maybe you were what all the big money buildup was for. I 
decided I would die without ever seeing any sense to it and maybe you would be the one who 
would all of a sudden see everything clear as a bell. I tell you even a half-dead man hates to be 
alive and not be able to see any sense to it. 
The reason I told Ransom K. Fern to give you this letter only if your luck turned bad is that 
nobody thinks or notices anything as long as his luck is good. Why should he? 
So have a look around for me, boy. And if you go broke and somebody comes along with a 
crazy pro position my advice is to take it. You might just learn something when you're in a mood 
to learn something. The only thing I ever learned was that some people are lucky and other 
people aren't and not even a graduate of the Harvard Business School can say why. 
Yours truly — your Pa 
There was a knock on the door of Room 223. The door opened before Constant could reply to the knock. 
Helmholtz and Miss Wiley let themselves in. They entered at precisely the right instant, 
having been advised by their superiors as to when, to the second, Malachi Constant would finish 
the letter. They had been told, too, precisely what to say to him. 
Miss Wiley removed her wig, revealing herself to be a scrawny man, and Helmholtz 
composed his features to reveal that he was fearless and used to command. 
"Mr. Constant," said Helmholtz, "I am here to inform you that the planet Mars is not only 
populated, but populated by a large and efficient and military and industrial society. It has been 
recruited from Earth, with the recruits being transferred to Mars by flying saucer. We are now 
prepared to offer you a direct lieutenant-colonelcy in the Army of Mars. 
"Your situation on Earth is hopeless. Your wife is a beast. Moreover, our intelligence informs 
us that here on Earth you will not only be made penniless by civil suits, but that you will be 
imprisoned for criminal negligence as well. 
"In addition to a pay scale and privileges well above those accorded lieutenant- colonels in 
Earthling armies, we can offer you immunity from all Earthling legal harassment, and an 
opportunity to see a new and interesting planet, and an opportunity to think about your native 
planet from a fresh and beautifully detached viewpoint." 
"If you accept the commission," said Miss Wiley, "raise your left hand and repeat after me — 
" 
On the following day, Malachi Constant's helicopter was found empty in the middle of the 
Mojave Desert. The footprints of a man led away from it for a distance of forty feet, then 
stopped. 
It was as though Malachi Constant had walked forty feet, and had then dissolved into thin air. 
On the following Tuesday, the space ship known as The Whale was rechristened The 
Rumfoord and was readied for firing. Beatrice Rumfoord smugly watched the ceremonies on a television set two 
thousand miles 
away. She was still in Newport. The Rumfoord was going to be fired in exactly one minute. If 
destiny was going to get Beatrice Rumfoord on board, it was going to have to do it in one hell of 
a hurry. Beatrice was feeling marvelous. She had proved so many good things. She had 
proved that she 
was mistress of her own fate, could say no whenever she pleased — and make it stick. She had 
proved that her husband's omniscient bullying was all a bluff — that he wasn't much better at 
forecasts than the United States Weather Bureau. 
She had, moreover, worked out a plan that would enable her to live in modest comfort for the 
rest of her days, and would, at the same time, give her husband the treatment he deserved. The 
next time he materialized, he would find the estate teeming with gawkers. Beatrice was going to 
charge them five dollars a head to come in through the Alice-in-Wonderland door. 
This was no pipe dream. She had discussed it with two supposed representatives of the 
mortgage-holders on the estate — and they were enthusiastic. They were with her now, watching the preparations for the firing of The 
Rumfoord on television. The television set was in the same room with the huge painting of 
Beatrice as an 
immaculate little girl in white, with a white pony all her own. Beatrice smiled up at the painting. 
The little girl had yet to get the least bit soiled. 
The television, announcer now began the last minute's countdown for the firing of The 
Rumfoord. During the countdown, Beatrice's mood was birdlike. She could not sit still and 
she could not 
keep quiet. Her restlessness was a result of happiness, not of suspense. It was a matter of 
indifference to her whether The Rumfoord was a fizzle or not. Her two visitors, on the other hand, seemed to take the firing very seriously — 
seemed to be 
praying for the success of the shot. They were a man and a woman, a Mr. George M. Helmholtz 
and his secretary, a Miss Roberta Wiley. Miss Wiley was a funny-looking little old thing, but 
very alert and witty. 
The rocket went up with a roar. 
It was a flawless shot. 
Helmholtz sat back and heaved a manly sigh of relief. Then he smiled and beat his thick thighs 
exuberantly. "By glory — " he said, "I'm proud to be an American — and proud to be living in 
the time I do." "Would you like something to drink?" said Beatrice.' 
"Thank you very much — " said Helmholtz, "but I daren't mix business with pleasure." 
"Isn't the business all over?" said Beatrice. "Haven't we discussed everything?" "Well — Miss Wiley and I had hoped to take an inventory of the larger buildings 
on the 
grounds," said Helmholtz, "but I'm afraid it's gotten quite dark. Are there floodlights?" 
Beatrice shook her head. "Sorry," she said. "Perhaps you have a powerful flashlight?" said Helmholtz. 
"I can probably get you a flashlight," said Beatrice, "but I don't think it's really necessary for 
you to go out there. I can tell you what all the buildings are." She rang for the butler, told him to 
bring a flashlight. "There's the tennis house, the greenhouse, the gardener's cottage, what used to 
be the gate house, the carriage house, the guest house, the tool shed, the bath house, the kennel, 
and the old water tower." 
"Which one is the new one?" said Helmholtz. 
"The new one?" said Beatrice. 
The butler returned with a flashlight, which Beatrice gave to Helmholtz. 
"The metal one," said Miss Wiley. 
"Metal?" said Beatrice puzzled. "There aren't any metal buildings. Maybe some of the 
weathered shingles have kind of a silvery look." She frowned. "Did somebody tell you there was 
a metal building here?" 
"We saw it when we came in," said Helmholtz. "Right by the path — in the undergrowth near 
the fountain," said Miss Wiley. 
"I can't imagine," said Beatrice. 
"Could we go out and have a look?" said Helmholtz. 
"Yes — of course," said Beatrice, rising. 
The party of three crossed the zodiac on the foyer floor, moved into the balmy dark. 
The flashlight beam danced before them. "Really — " said Beatrice, "I'm as curious to find out 
what it is as you are." 
"It looks like kind of a prefabricated thing made out of aluminum," said Miss Wiley. 
"It looks like a mushroom-shaped water tank or something," said Helmholtz, "only it is 
squatting right on the ground." 
"Really?" said Beatrice. 
"You know what I said it was, don't you?" said Miss Wiley. 
"No — " said Beatrice, "what did you say it was?" 
"I have to whisper," said Miss Wiley playfully, "or somebody will want to lock me up in the 
crazy house." She put her hand to her mouth, directing her loud whisper to Beatrice. "Flying 
saucer," she said. 
CHAPTER FOUR 
TENT RENTALS 
Rented a tent, a tent, a tent; 
Rented a tent, a tent, a tent. 
Rented a tent! 
Rented a tent! 
Rented a, rented a tent. 
— SNARE DRUM ON MARS 
The men had marched to the parade ground to the sound of a snare drum. The snare drum had 
this to say to them: 
Rented a tent, a tent, a tent; Rented a tent, a tent, a tent. Rented a tent! Rented a tent! 
Rented a, rented a tent. 
They were an infantry division of ten thousand men, formed in a hollow square on a natural 
parade ground of solid iron one mile thick. The soldiers stood at attention on orange rust. They 
shivered rigidly, being as much like iron as they could be — both officers anti men. Their 
uniforms were a rough-textured, frosty green — the color of lichens. 
The army had come to attention in utter silence. No audible or visible signal had been given. 
They had come to attention as a man, as though through a stupendous coincidence. 
The third man in the second squad of the first platoon of the second company of the third 
battalion of the second regiment of the First Martian Assault Infantry Division was a private who 
had been broken from lieutenant-colonel three years before. He had been on Mars for eight 
years. 
When a man in a modern army is broken from field grade to private, it is likely that he will be 
old for a private, and that his comrades in arms, once they get used to the fact that he isn't an 
officer any more, will, out of respect for his failing legs, eyes, and wind, call him something like 
Pops, or Gramps, or Unk. The third man in the second squad of the first platoon of the second company in 
the third battalion of the second regiment of the First Martian Assault Infantry Division 
was called Unk. Unk was forty years old. Unk was a well-made man — a light heavyweight, 
dark-skinned, with poet's lips, with soft brown eyes in the shaded caves of a Cro-Magnon brow 
ridge. Incipient 
baldness had isolated a dramatic scalplock. 
An illustrative anecdote about Unk: 
One time, when Unk's platoon was taking a shower, Henry Brackman, Unk's platoon sergeant, 
asked a sergeant from another regiment to pick out the best soldier in the platoon. The visiting 
sergeant, without any hesitation, picked Unk, because Unk was a compact, nicely muscled, 
intelligent man among boys. 
Brackman rolled his eyes. "Jesus — you'd think so, wouldn't you?" he said. "That's the platoon 
f — kup." "You kidding me?" said the visiting sergeant. 
"Hell no, I ain't kidding you," said Brackman. "Look at him — been standing there for ten 
minutes, and hasn't touched a piece of soap yet. Unk! Wake up, Unk!" 
Unk shuddered, stopped dreaming under the tepid drizzle of the shower head. He looked 
questioningly at Brackman, bleakly co-operative. "Use some soap, Unk!" said Brackman. "For Chrissakes, use some soap!" 
Now, on the iron parade ground, Unk stood at attention in the hollow square like all the rest. 
In the middle of the hollow square was a stone post with iron rings fixed to it. Chains had been 
drawn rattling through the rings — had been drawn tight around a red-haired soldier standing 
against a post. The soldier was a clean soldier — but he was not a neat soldier, for all the badges 
and decorations had been stripped off his uniform, and he had no belt, no necktie, no snow-white 
puttees. 
Everybody else, including Unk, was all spiffed up. Everybody else looked very nice indeed. 
Something painful was going to happen to the man at the stake — something from which the 
man would want to escape very much, something from which he was not going to escape, 
because of the chains. 
And all the soldiers were going to watch. 
The event was being given great importance. 
Even the man at the stake was standing at attention, being the best soldier he knew how to be, 
under the circumstances. 
Again — no audible or visible order was given, but the ten thousand soldiers executed the 
movement of parade rest as a man. So did the man at the stake. 
Then the soldiers relaxed in ranks, as though given the order at ease. Their obligations under 
this order were to relax, but to keep their feet in place, and to keep silent. The soldiers were free 
to think a little now, and to look around and to send messages with their eyes, if they had 
messages and could find receivers. 
The man at the stake tugged against his chains, craned his neck to judge the height of the stake 
to which he was chained. It was as though he thought he might escape by use of the scientific 
method, if only he could find out how high the stake was and what it was made of. 
The stake was nineteen feet, six and five thirty-seconds inches high, not counting the twelve 
feet, two and one-eighth inches of it embedded in the iron. The stake had a mean diameter of two 
feet, five and eleven third-seconds inches, varying from this mean, however, by as much as 
seven and one thirty-second inches. The stake was composed of quartz, alkali, feldspar, mica, 
and traces of tourmaline and hornblende. For the information of the man at the stake: He was one 
hundred and forty-two million, three hundred and forty-six thousand, nine hundred and eleven 
miles from the Sun, and help was not on its way. 
The red-haired man at the stake made no sound, because soldiers at ease were not permitted to 
make sounds. He sent a message with his eyes, however, to the effect that he would like to 
scream. He sent the message to anyone whose eyes would meet his. He was hoping to get the 
message to one person in particular, to his best friend — to Unk. He was looking for Unk. 
He couldn't find Unk's face. 
If he had found Unk's face, there wouldn't have been any blooming of recognition and pity on 
Unk's face. Unk had just come out of the base hospital, where he had been treated for mental 
illness, and Unk's mind was almost a blank. Unk didn't recognize his best friend at the stake. Unk 
didn't recognize anybody. Unk wouldn't have even known his own name was Unk, wouldn't even 
have known he was a soldier, if they hadn't told him so when they discharged him from the 
hospital. He had gone straight from the hospital to the formation he was in now. 
At the hospital they told him again and again and again that he was the best soldier in the best 
squad in the best platoon in the best company in the best battalion in the best regiment in the best 
division in the best army. Unk guessed that was something to be proud of. At the hospital they told him he had been a pretty sick boy, but he was fully 
recovered now. That seemed like good news. 
At the hospital they told him what his sergeant's name was, and what a sergeant was, and what 
all the symbols of ranks and grades and specialties were. 
They had blanked out so much of Unk's memory that they even had to teach him the foot 
movements and the manual of arms all over again. 
At the hospital they even had 
"Eight minutes," said Chrono, looking at his watch. He was eleven Earthling years old now. 
He was dark and smoldering. He was an expert short-changer, and was clever with cards. He was 
foul-mouthed, and carried a switch-knife with a six-inch blade. Chrono would not socialize well 
with other children, and his reputation for dealing with life courageously and directly was so bad 
that only a few very foolish and very pretty little girls were attracted to him. 
Chrono was classified by the Newport Police Department and by the Rhode Island State Police 
as a juvenile delinquent. He knew at least fifty law-enforcement officers by their first names, and 
was a veteran of fourteen lie-detector tests. 
All that prevented Chrono's being placed in an institution was the finest legal staff on Earth, 
the legal staff of the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent. Under the direction of Rumfoord, the 
staff defended Chrono against all charges. 
The commonest charges brought against Chrono were larceny by sleight of hand, carrying 
concealed weapons, possessing unregistered pistols, discharging firearms within the city limits, 
selling obscene prints and articles, and being a wayward child. 
The authorities complained bitterly that the boy's big trouble was his mother. His mother loved 
him just the way he was. 
"Only eight more minutes to get your Malachi, folks," said Bee. "Hurry, hurry, hurry." 
Bee's upper front teeth were gold, and her skin, like the skin of her son, was the color of 
golden oak. 
Bee had lost her upper front teeth when the space ship in which she and Chrono had ridden 
from Mars crash-landed in the Gumbo region of the Amazon Rain Forest. She and Chrono had 
been the only survivors of the crash, and had wandered through the jungles for a year. 
The color of Bee's and Chrono's skins was permanent, since it stemmed from a modification of 
their livers, Their livers had been modified by a three-month diet consisting of water and the 
roots of the salpa-salpa or Amazonian blue poplar. The diet had been a part of Bee's and 
Chrono's initiation into the Gumbo tribe. 
During the initiation, mother and son had been staked at the ends of tethers in the middle of 
the village, with Chrono representing the Sun and Bee representing the Moon, as the Sun and the 
Moon were understood by the Gumbo people. 
As a result of their experiences, Bee and Chrono were closer than most mothers and sons. 
They had been rescued at last by a helicopter. Winston Niles Rumfoord had sent the helicopter 
to just the right place at just the right time. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord had given Bee and Chrono the lucrative Malachi concession outside 
the Alice-in-Wonderland door. He had also paid Bee's dental bill, and had suggested that her 
false front teeth be gold. 
The man who had the booth next to Bee's was Harry Brackman. He had been Unk's platoon 
sergeant back on Mars. Brackman was portly and balding now. He had a cork leg and a stainless 
steel right hand. He had lost the leg and hand in the Battle of Boca Raton, He was the only 
survivor of the battle — and, if he hadn't been so horribly wounded, he would certainly have 
been lynched along with the other survivors of his platoon. 
Brackman sold plastic models of the fountain inside the wall. The models were a foot high. 
The models had spring-driven pumps in their bases. The pumps pumped water from the big bowl 
at the bottom to the tiny bowls at the top. Then the tiny bowls spilled into the slightly larger 
bowls below and . . . 
Brackman had three of them going at once on the counter before him. "Just like the one inside, 
folks," he said. "And you can take one of these home with you. Put it in the picture window, so 
all your neighbors'll know you've been to Newport. Put it in the middle of the kitchen table for 
the kids' parties, and fill it with pink lemonade." "How much?" said a rube. "Seventeen dollars," said Brackman. "Wow!" said the rube. 
"It's a sacred shrine, cousin," said Brackman, looking at the rube levelly. "Isn't a toy." He 
reached under the counter, brought out a model of a Martian space ship. "You want a toy? Here's 
a toy. Forty-nine cents. I only make two cents on it." 
The rube made a show of being a judicious shopper. He compared the toy with the real article 
it was supposed to represent. The real article was a Martian space ship on top of a column 
ninety-eight feet tall, The column and space ship were inside the walls of the Rumfoord estate — 
in the corner of the estate where the tennis courts had once been. 
Rumfoord bad yet to explain the purpose of the space ship, whose supporting column had been 
built with the pennies of school children from all over the world. The ship was kept in constant 
readiness. What was reputedly the longest free-standing ladder in history leaned against the 
column, led giddily to the door of the ship. 
In the fuel cartridge of the space ship was the very last trace of the Martian war effort's supply 
of the Universal Will to Become. 
"Uh huh," said the rube. He put the model back on the counter. "If you don't mind, I'll shop 
around a little more." So far, the only thing he had bought was a Robin Hood hat with a picture 
of Rumfoord on one side and a picture of a sailboat on the other, and with his own name stitched 
on the feather. His name, according to the feather, was Delbert. "Thanks just the same," said 
Delbert. "I'll probably be back." 
"Sure you will, Delbert," said Brackman. 
"How did you know my name was Delbert?" said Delbert, pleased and suspicious. 
"You think Winston Niles Rumfoord is the only man around here with supernatural powers?" 
said Brackman. 
A jet of steam went up inside the walls. An instant later, the voice of the great steam whistle 
rolled over the booths — mighty, mournful, and triumphant. It was the signal that Rumfoord and 
his dog would materialize in five minutes. 
It was the signal for the concessionaires to stop their irreverent bawling of brummagem wares, 
to close their shutters. The shutters were banged shut at once. 
The effect of the closing inside the booths was to turn the line of concessions into a twilit 
tunnel. 
The isolation of the concessionaires in the tunnel bad an extra dimension of spookiness, since 
the tunnel contained only survivors from Mars. Rumfoord had insisted on that — that Martians 
were to have first choice of the concessions at Newport. It was his way of saying, "Thanks." 
There weren't many survivors — only fifty-eight in the United States, only three hundred and 
sixteen in the entire World; of the fifty-eight in the United States, twenty-one were 
concessionaires in Newport. 
"Here we go again, kiddies," somebody said, far, far, far down the line. It was the voice of the 
blind man who sold the Robin Hood hats with a picture of Rumfoord on one side and a picture of 
a sailboat on the other. 
Sergeant Brackman laid his folded arms on the half-partition between his booth and Bee's. He 
winked at young Chrono, who was lying on an unopened case of Malachis. "Go to hell, eh, kid?" said Brackman to Chrono. 
"Go to hell," Chrono agreed. He was cleaning his nails with the strangely bent, drilled and 
nicked piece of metal that had been his good-luck piece on Mars. It was still his good-luck piece 
on Earth. 
The good-luck piece had probably saved Chrono's and Bee's lives in the jungle. The Gumbo 
tribesmen had recognized the piece of metal as an object of tremendous power. Their respect for 
it had led them to initiate rather than eat its owners. 
Brackman laughed affectionately. "Yessir — there's a Martian for you," he said. "Won't even 
get off his case of Malachis for a look at the Space Wanderer." 
Chrono was not alone in his apathy about the Space Wanderer. It was the proud and impudent 
custom of all the concessionaires to stay away from ceremonies — to stay in the twilit tunnel of 
their booths until Rumfoord and his dog had come and gone. 
It wasn't that the concessionaires had real contempt for Rumfoord's religion. Actually, most of 
them thought the new religion was probably a pretty good thing. What they were dramatizing 
when they stayed in their shuttered booths was that they, as Martian veterans, had already done 
more than enough to put the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent on its feet. They were dramatizing the fact of their having been all used up. 
Rumfoord encouraged them in this pose — spoke of them fondly as his ". . . soldier saints 
outside the little door. Their apathy," Rumfoord once said, "is a great wound they suffered that 
we might be more lively, more sensitive, and more free." 
The temptation of the Martian concessionaires to take a peek at the Space Wanderer was great. 
There were loudspeakers on the walls of the Rumfoord estate, and every word spoken by 
Rumfoord inside blatted in the ears of anyone within a quarter of a mile. The words had spoken 
again and again of the glorious moment of truth that would come when the Space Wanderer 
came. 
It was a big moment true believers titillated themselves about — the big moment wherein true 
believers were going to find their beliefs amplified, clarified, and vivified by a factor of ten. 
Now the moment had arrived. 
The fire engine that had carried the Space Wanderer down from the Church of the Space 
Wanderer on Cape Cod was clanging and shrieking outside the booths. 
The trolls in the twilight of the booths refused to peek. 
The cannon roared within the walls. 
Rumfoord and his dog, then, had materialized — and the Space Wanderer was passing in 
through the Alice-in-Wonderland door. "Probably some broken-down actor he hired from New York," said Brackman. 
This got no response from anyone, not even from Chrono, who fancied himself the chief cynic 
of the booths. Brackman didn't take his own suggestion seriously — that the Space Wanderer 
was a fraud. The concessionaires knew all too well about Rumfoord's penchant for realism. 
When Rumfoord staged a passion play, he used nothing but real people in real hells. 
Let it be emphasized here that, passionately fond as Rumfoord was of great spectacles, he 
never gave in to the temptation to declare himself God or something a whole lot like God. 
His worst enemies admit that. Dr. Maurice Rosenau, in his Pan-Galactic Humbug or Three 
Billion Dupes says: Winston Niles Rumfoord, the interstellar Pharisee, Tartufe, and Cagliostro, has 
taken pains to 
declare that he is not God Almighty, that he is not a close relative of God Almighty, and that he 
has received no plain instructions from God Almighty. To these words of the Master of Newport 
we can say Amen! And may we add that Rumfoord is so far from being a relative or agent of God 
Almighty as to make all communication with God Almighty Himself impossible so long as 
Rumfoord is around! 
Ordinarily, talk by the Martian veterans in the shuttered booths was sprightly — bristling with 
entertaining irreverence and tips on selling trashy religious artides to boobs. 
Now, with Rumfoord and the Space Wanderer about to meet, the concessionaires found it very 
hard not to be interested. 
Sergeant Brackman's good hand went up to the crown of his head. It was the characteristic 
gesture of a Martian veteran. He was touching the area over his antenna, over the antenna that 
had once done all his important thinking for him. He missed the signals. 
"Bring the Space Wanderer here!" blatted Rumfoord's voice from the Gabriel horns on the 
walls. "Maybe — maybe we should go," said Brackman to Bee. 
"What?" murmured Bee. She was standing with her back to the closed shutters. Her eyes were 
shut. Her head was down. She looked cold. She always shivered when a materialization was taking place. 
Chrono was rubbing his good-luck piece slowly with the ball of his thumb, watching a halo of 
mist on the cold metal, a halo around the thumb. "The hell with 'em — eh, Chrono?" said Brackman. 
The man who sold twittering mechanical birds swung his wares overhead listlessly. A farm 
wife had stabbed him with a pitchfork in the Battle of Toddington, England, had left him for 
dead. 
The International Committee for the Identification and Rehabilitation of Martians had, with 
the help of fingerprints, identified the bird man as Bernard K. Winslow, an itinerant chicken 
sexer, who had disappeared from the alcoholic ward of a London hospital. 
"Thanks very much for the information," Winslow had told the committee. "Now I don't have 
that lost feeling any more." 
Sergeant Brackman had been identified by the Committee as Private Francis J. Thompson, 
who had disappeared in the dead of night while walking a lonely guard post around a motor pooi 
in Fort Bragg, North Carolina, U.S.A. 
The committee had been baffled by Bee. She had no fingerprints on record. The Committee 
believed her to be either Florence White, a plain and friendless girl who had disappeared from a 
steam laundry in Cohoes, New York, or Darlene Simpkins, a plain and friendless girl who had 
last been seen accepting a ride with a swarthy stranger in Brownsville, Texas. 
And down the line of booths from Brackman and Chrono and Bee were Martian husks who 
had been identified as Myron S. Watson, an alcoholic, who had disappeared from his post as a 
wash room attendant at Newark Airport . . . as Charlene Heller, assistant dietitian of the cafeteria 
of Stivers High School in Dayton, Ohio . . . as Krishna Garu, a typesetter still wanted, 
technically, on charges of bigamy, pandering, and nonsupport in Calcutta, India . . . as Kurt 
Schneider, also an alcoholic, manager of a failing travel agency in Bremen, Germany. 
"The mighty Rumfoord — " said Bee. 
"Pardon me?" said Brackman. 
"He snatched us out of our lives," said Bee. "He put us to sleep. He cleaned out our minds the 
way you dean the seeds out of a jack-o'-lantern. He wired us like robots, trained us, aimed us — 
burned us out in a good cause." She shrugged. 
"Could we have done any better if he'd left us in charge of our own lives?" said Bee. "Would 
we have become any more — or any less? I guess I'm glad he used me. I guess he had a lot better 
ideas about what to do with me than Florence White or Darlene Simpkins or whoever I was. 
"But I hate him all the same," said Bee. 
"That's your privilege," said Brackman. "He said that was the privilege of every Martian." 
"There's one consolation," said Bee. "We're all used up. We'll never be of any use to him 
again." 
"Welcome, Space Wanderer," blatted Rumfoord's oleomargarine tenor from the Gabriel horns 
on the wall. "How meet it is that you should come to us on the bright red pumper of a volunteer 
fire department. I can think of no more stirring symbol of man's humanity to man than a fire 
engine. Tell me, Space Wanderer, do you see anything here — anything that makes you think 
you may have been here before?" 
The Space Wanderer murmured something unintelligible. 
"Louder, please," said Rumfoord. 
"The fountain — I remember that fountain," said the Space Wanderer gropingly. "Only — 
only — " "Only?" said Rumfoord. 
"It was dry then — whenever that was. It's so wet now," said the Space Wanderer. 
A microphone near the fountain was now tuned into the public address system, so that the 
actual babble, spatter and potch of the fountain could underline the Space Wanderer's words. 
"Anything else familiar, oh, Space Wanderer?" said Rumfoord. "Yes," said the Space Wanderer shyly. "You." 
"I am familiar?" said Rumfoord archly. "You mean there's a possibility that I played some 
small part in your life before?" 
"I remember you on Mars," said the Space Wanderer. "You were the man with the dog — just 
before we took off." "What happened after you took off?" said Rumfoord. 
"Something went wrong," said the Space Wanderer. He sounded apologetic, as though the 
series of misfortunes were somehow his own fault. "A lot of things went wrong." 
"Have you ever considered the possibility," said Rumfoord, "that everything went absolutely 
right?" 
"No," said the Space Wanderer simply. The idea did not startle him, could not startle him — 
since the idea proposed was so far beyond the range of his jerry-built philosophy. 
"Would you recognize your mate and child?" said Rumfoord. "I — I don't know," said the Space Wanderer. 
"Bring me the woman and the boy who sell Malachis outside the little iron door," said 
Rumfoord. "Bring Bee and Chrono." 
The Space Wanderer and Winston Niles Rumfoord and Kazak were on a scaffold before the 
mansion. The scaffold was at eye-level for the standing crowd. The scaffold before the mansion 
was a portion of a continuous system of catwalks, ramps, ladders, pulpits, steps, and stages that 
reached into every corner of the estate. 
The system made possible the free and showy circulation of Rumfoord around the grounds, 
unimpeded by crowds. It meant, too, that Rumfoord could offer a glimpse of himself to every 
person on the grounds. 
The system was not suspended magnetically, though it looked like a miracle of levitation. The 
seeming miracle was achieved by means of a cunning use of paint. The underpinnings were 
painted a flat black, while the superstructures were painted flashing gold. 
Television cameras and microphones on booms could follow the system anywhere. 
For night materializations, the superstructures of the system were outlined in flesh-colored 
electric lamps. 
The Space Wanderer was only the thirty-first person to be invited to join Rumfoord on the 
elevated system. 
An assistant had now been dispatched to the Malachi booth outside to bring in the thirtysecond and thirty-third persons to share the eminence. 
Rumfoord did not look well. His color was bad. And, although he smiled as always, his teeth 
seemed to be gnashing behind the smile. His complacent glee had become a caricature, betraying 
the fact that all was not well by any means. 
But on and on the famous smile went. The magnificently snobbish crowd-pleaser held his big 
dog Kazak by a choke chain. The chain was twisted so as to nip warningly into the dog's throat. 
The warning was necessary, since the dog plainly did not like the Space Wanderer. 
The smile faltered for an instant, reminding the crowd of what a load Rumfoord carried for 
them — warning the crowd that he might not be able to carry it forever. 
Rumfoord carried in his palm a microphone and transmitter the size of a penny. When he did 
not want his voice carried to the crowd, he simply smothered the penny in his fist. 
The penny was smothered in his fist now — and he was addressing bits of irony to the Space 
Wanderer that would have bewildered the crowd, had the crowd been able to hear them. 
"This is certainly your day, isn't it?" said Rumfoord. "A perfect love feast from the instant you 
arrived. The crowd simply adores you. Do you adore crowds?" 
The joyful shocks of the day had reduced the Space Wanderer to a childish condition — a 
condition wherein irony and even sarcasm were lost on him. He had been the captive of many 
things in his troubled times. He was now a captive of a crowd that thought he was a marvel. 
"They've certainly been wonderful," he said, in reply to Rumfoord's last question. "They've been 
grand." 
"Oh — they're a grand bunch," said Rumfoord. "No mistake about that. I've been racking my 
brains for the right word to describe them, and you've brought it to me from 
outer space. Grand is what they are." Rumfoord's mind was plainly elsewhere. He wasn't much 
interested in the 
Space Wanderer as a person — hardly looked at him. Neither did he seem very excited about the 
approach of the Space Wanderer's wife and child. 
"Where are they, where are they?" said Rumfoord to an assistant below. "Let's get on with it. 
Let's get it over with." 
The Space Wanderer was finding his adventures so satisfying and stimulating, so splendidly 
staged, that he was shy about asking questions — was afraid that asking questions might make 
him seem ungrateful. 
He realized that he had a terrific ceremonial responsibility and that the best thing to do was to 
keep his mouth shut, to speak only when spoken to, and to make his answers to all questions 
short and artless. 
The Space Wanderer's mind did not teem with questions. The fundamental structure of his 
ceremonial situation was obvious — was as clean and functional as a three- legged milking stool. 
He had suffered mightily, and now he was being rewarded mightily. 
The sudden change in fortunes made a bang-up show. He smiled, understanding the crowd's 
delight — pretending to be in the crowd himself, sharing the crowd's delight. 
Rumfoord read the Space Wanderer's mind. "They'd like it just as much the other way around, 
you know," he said. 
"The other way around?" said the Space Wanderer. 
"If the big reward came first, and then the great suffering," said Rumford. "It's the contrast 
they like. The order of events doesn't make any difference to them. It's the thrill of the fast 
reverse — " Rumfoord opened his fist, exposed the microphone. With his other hand he 
beckoned 
pontifically. He was beckoning to Bee and Chrono, who had been hoisted Onto a tributary of the 
gilded system of catwalks, ramps, ladders, pulpits, steps and stages. "This way, please. We 
haven't got all day, you know," said Rumfoord schoolmarmishly. 
During the lull, the Space Wanderer felt the first real tickle of plans for a good future on Earth. 
With everyone so kind and enthusiastic and peaceful, not only a good life but a perfect life could 
be lived on Earth. 
The Space Wanderer had already been given a fine new suit and a glamorous station in life, 
and his mate and son were to be restored to him in a matter of minutes. 
All that was lacking was a good friend, and the Space Wanderer began to tremble. He 
trembled, for he knew in his heart that his best friend, Stony Stevenson, was hidden somewhere 
on the grounds, awaiting a cue to appear. 
The Space Wanderer smiled, for he was imagining Stony's entrance. Stony would come 
running down a ramp, laughing and a little drunk. "Unk, you bloody bastard — " Stony would 
roar right into the public address system, "by God, I've looked in every flaming pub on bloody 
Earth for you — and here you've been hung up on Mercury the whole bloody time!" 
As Bee and Chrono reached Rumfoord and the Space Wanderer, Rumfoord walked away. Had 
he separated himself from Bee, Chrono, and the Space Wanderer by a mere arm's length, his 
separateness might have been understood. But the gilded system enabled him to put a really 
respectable distance between himself and the three, and not only a distance, but a distance made 
tortuous by rococo and variously symbolic hazards. It was undeniably great theater, notwithstanding Dr. Maurice Rosenau's carping 
comment ( op. 
cit.): "The people who watch reverently as Winston Niles Rumfoord goes dancing over his 
golden jungle gym in Newport are the same idiots one finds in toy stores, gaping reverently at 
toy trains as the trains go chuffa-chuffa-chuffa in and out of papier-mâché tunnels, over toothpick 
trestles, through cardboard cities, and into papier-mâché tunnels again. Will the little trains or 
will Winston Niles Rumfoord chuffa-chuffa-chuffa into view again? Oh, mirabile dictu! . . . they 
will!" 
From the scaffold in front of the mansion Rumfoord went to a stile that arched over the crest 
of a boxwood hedge. On the other side of the stile was a catwalk that ran for ten feet to the trunk 
of a copper beech. The trunk was four feet through. Gilded rungs were fixed to the trunk by lag 
screws. 
Rumfoord tied Kazak to the bottom rung, then climbed out of sight like Jack on the beanstalk. 
From somewhere up in the tree he spoke. His voice came not from the tree but from the Gabriel horns on the walls. 
The crowd weaned its eyes from the leafy treetop, turned its eyes to the nearest loudspeakers. 
Only Bee, Chrono, and the Space Wanderer continued to look up, to look up at where 
Rumfoord really was. This wasn't so much a result of realism as it was a result of embarrassment. By looking up, the members of the little family avoided looking 
at each other. None of the three had any reason to be pleased with the reunion. 
Bee was not drawn to the scrawny, bearded, happy boob in lemon-yellow long underwear. She 
had dreamed of a big, angry, arrogant free-thinker. 
Young Chrono hated the bearded intruder on his sublime relationship with his mother. Chrono 
kissed his good-luck piece and wished that his father, if this really was his father, would drop 
dead. 
And the Space Wanderer himself, sincerely as he tried, could see nothing he would have 
chosen of his own free will in the dark, malevolent mother and son. 
By accident, the Space Wanderer's eyes met the one good eye of Bee. Something had to be 
said. 
"How do you do?" said the Space Wanderer. 
"How do you do?" said Bee. 
They both looked up into the tree again. 
"Oh, my happy, handicapped brethren," said Rumfoord's voice, "let us thank God — God, 
who appreciates our thanks as much as the mighty Mississippi appreciates a raindrop — that we 
are not like Malachi Constant." 
The back of the Space Wanderer's neck ached some. He lowered his gaze. His eyes were 
caught by a long, straight golden runway in the middle distance. His eyes followed it. 
The runway ended at Earth's longest free-standing ladder. The ladder was painted gold, too. 
The Space Wanderer's gaze climbed the ladder to the tiny door of the space ship on top of the 
column. He wondered who would have nerve enough or reason enough to climb such a 
frightening ladder to such a tiny door. 
The Space Wanderer looked at the crowd again. Maybe Stony Stevenson was in the crowd 
somewhere. Maybe he would wait for the whole show to end before he presented himself to his 
best and only friend from Mars. 
CHAPTER ELEVEN 
WE HATE MALACHI CONSTANT BECAUSE . . . "Tell me one good thing you ever did in your life." — WINSTON NILES RUMFOORD 
And this is how the sermon went: 
"We are disgusted by Malachi Constant," said Winston Niles Rumfoord up in his treetop, 
"because he used the fantastic fruits of his fantastic good luck to finance an unending 
demonstration that man is a pig. He wallowed in sycophants. He wallowed in worthless women. 
He wallowed in lascivious entertainments and alcohol and drugs. He wallowed in every known 
form of voluptuous turpitude. 
"At the height of his good luck, Malachi Constant was worth more than the states of Utah and 
North Dakota combined. Yet, I daresay, his moral worth was not that of the most corrupt little 
fleidmouse in either state. 
"We are angered by Malachi Constant," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "because he did 
nothing to deserve his billions, and because he did nothing unselfish or imaginative with his 
billions. He was as benevolent as Marie Antoinette, as creative as a professor of cosmetology in 
an embalming college. 
"We hate Malachi Constant," said Rumford up in his treetop, "because he accepted the 
fantastic fruits of his fantastic good luck, without a qualm, as though luck were the hand of God. 
To us of the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent, there is nothing more cruel, more dangerous, 
more blasphemous that a man can do than to believe that — that luck, good or bad, is the hand of 
God! "Luck, good or bad," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "is not the hand of God. 
"Luck," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "is the way the wind swirls and the dust settles eons 
after God has passed by. "Space Wanderer!" called Rumfoord from up in his treetop. 
The Space Wanderer was not paying strict attention. His powers of concentration were feeble 
— possibly because he had been in the caves too long, or on goofballs too long, or in the Army 
of Mars too long. 
He was watching clouds. They were lovely things, and the sky they drifted in was, to the 
color-starved Space Wanderer, a thrilling blue. 
"Space Wanderer!" called Rumfoord again. 
"You in the yellow suit," said Bee. She nudged him. "Wake up." 
"Pardon me?" said the Space Wanderer. 
"Space Wanderer!" called Rumfoord. 
The Space Wanderer snapped to attention. "Yes, sir?" he called up into the leafy bower. The 
greeting was ingenuous, cheerful, and winsome. A microphone on the end of a boom was swung 
to dangle before him. 
"Space Wanderer!" called Rumfoord, and he was peeved now, for the ceremonial flow was 
being impeded. 
"Right here, sir!" cried the Space Wanderer. His reply boomed earsplittingly from the 
loudspeaker. 
"Who are you?" said Rumford. "What is your real name?" 
"I don't know my real name," said the Space Wanderer. "They called me Unk." 
"What happened to you before you arrived back on Earth, Unk?" said Rumfoord. 
The Space Wanderer beamed. He had been led to a repetition of the simple statement that had 
caused so much laughing and dancing and singing on Cape Cod. "I was a victim of a series of 
accidents, as are we all," he said. There was no laughing and dancing and singing this time, but the crowd was 
definitely in 
favor of what the Space Wanderer had said. Chins were raised, and eyes were widened, and 
nostrils were flared. There was no outcry, for the crowd wanted to hear absolutely everything 
that Rumfoord and the Space Wanderer might have to say. 
"A victim of a series of accidents, were you?" said Rumfoord up in his treetop. "Of all the 
accidents," he said, "which would you consider the most significant?" The Space Wanderer cocked his head. "I'd have to think — " he said. 
"I'll spare you the trouble," said Rumfoord. "The most significant accident that happened to 
you was your being born. Would you like me to tell you what you were named when you were 
born?" 
The Space Wanderer hesitated only a moment, and all that made him hesitate was a fear that 
he was going to spoil a very gratifying ceremonial career by saying the wrong thing. "Please do," 
he said. "They called you Malachi Constant," said Rumfoord up in his treetop. 
To the extent that crowds can be good things, the crowds that Winston Niles Rumfoord 
attracted to Newport were good crowds. They were not crowd-minded. The members remained 
in possession of their own consciences, and Rumfoord never invited them to participate as one in 
any action — least of all in applause or catcalls. 
When the fact had sunk in that the Space Wanderer was the disgusting, irking, and hateful 
Malachi Constant, the members of the crowd reacted in quiet, sighing, personal ways — ways 
that were by and large compassionate. It was on their generally decent consciences, after all, that 
they had hanged Constant in effigy in their homes and places of work. And, while they had been 
cheerful enough about hanging the effigies, very few felt that Constant, in the flesh, actually 
deserved hanging. Hanging Malachi Constant in effigy was an act of violence on the order of 
trimming a Christmas tree or hiding Easter eggs. 
And Rumfoord up in his treetop said nothing to discourage their compassion. "You have had 
the singular accident, Mr. Constant," he said sympathetically, "of becoming a central symbol of 
wrong-headedness for a perfectly enormous religious sect. 
"You would not be attractive to us as a symbol, Mr. Constant," he said, "if our hearts did not 
go out to you to a certain extent. Our hearts have to go out to you, since all your flamboyant 
errors are errors that human beings have made since the beginning of time. 
"In a few minutes, Mr. Constant," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "you are going to walk 
down the catwalks and ramps to that long golden ladder, and you are going to climb that ladder, 
and you are going to get into that space ship, and you are going to fly away to Titan, a warm and 
fecund moon of Saturn. You will live there in safety and comfort, but in exile from your native 
Earth. 
"You are going to do this voluntarily, Mr. Constant, so that the Church of God the Utterly 
Indifferent can have a drama of dignified self-sacrifice to remember and ponder through all time. 
"We will imagine, to our spiritual satisfaction," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "that you are 
taking all mistaken ideas about the meaning of luck, all misused wealth and power, and all 
disgusting pastimes with you." 
The man who had been Malachi Constant, who had been Unk, who had been the Space 
Wanderer, the man who was Malachi Constant again — that man felt very little upon being 
declared Malachi Constant again. He might, possibly, have felt some interesting things, had 
Rumfoord's timing been different. But Rumfoord told him what his ordeal was to be only 
seconds after telling him he was Malachi Constant — and the ordeal was sufficiently ghastly to 
command Constant's full attention. 
The ordeal had been promised not in years or months or days — but in minutes. And, like any 
condemned criminal, Malachi Constant became a student, to the exclusion of all else, of the 
apparatus on which he was about to perform. 
Curiously, his first worry was that he would stumble, that he would think too hard about the 
simple matter of walking, and that his feet would cease to work naturally, and that be would 
stumble on those wooden feet. 
"You won't stumble, Mr. Constant," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, reading Constant's mind. 
"There is nowhere else for you to go, nothing else for you to do. By putting one foot in front of 
the other, while we watch in silence, you will make of yourself the most memorable, 
magnificent, and meaningful human being of modern times." 
Constant turned to look at his dusky mate and child. Their gazes were direct. Constant learned 
from their gazes that Rumfoord had spoken the truth, that no course save the course to the space 
ship was open to him. Beatrice and young Chrono were supremely cynical about the festivities 
— but not about courageous behavior in the midst of them. They dared Malachi Constant to behave well. 
Constant rubbed his left thumb and index finger together in a careful rotary motion. He 
watched this. pointless enterprise for perhaps ten seconds. 
And then he dropped his hands to his sides, raised his eyes, and stepped off firmly toward the 
space ship. As his left foot struck the ramp, his head was filled with a sound he had not heard for 
three Earthling years. The sound was coming from the antenna under the crown of his skull. 
Rumfoord, up in his treetop, was sending signals to Constant's antenna by means of a small box 
in his pocket. 
He was making Constant's long and lonely walk more bearable by filling Constant's head with 
the sound of a snare drum. The snare drum had this to say to him: Rented a tent, a tent, a tent; Rented a tent, a tent. Rented a tent! Rented a tent! Rented a, rented a tent! The snare drum fell silent as Malachi Constant's hand closed for the first time on 
a gilded rung of 
the world's tallest free-standing ladder. He looked up, and perspective made the ladder's summit 
seem as tiny as a needle. Constant rested his brow for a moment against the rung to which his 
hand clung. 
"You have something you would like to say, Mr. Constant, before you go up the ladder?" said 
Rumfoord up in his treetop. 
A microphone on the end of a boom was again dangled before Constant. Constant licked his 
lips. "You're about to say something, Mr. Constant?" said Rumfoord. 
"If you're going to talk," the technician in charge of the microphone said to Constant, "speak 
in a perfectly normal tone, and keep your lips about six inches away from the microphone." 
"You're going to speak to us, Mr. Constant?" said Rumfoord. 
"It — it's probably not worth saying," said Constant quietly, "but I'd still like to say that I 
haven't understood a single thing that's happened to me since I reached Earth." 
"You haven't got that feeling of participation?" said Rumfoord up in his treetop. "Is that it?" 
"It doesn't matter," said Constant. "I'm still going up the ladder." "Well," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, "if you feel we are doing you some sort 
of injustice 
here, suppose you tell us something really good you've done at some point in your life, and let us 
decide whether that piece of goodness might excuse you from this thing we have planned for 
you." "Goodness?" said Constant. 
"Yes," said Rumfoord expansively. "Tell me one good thing you ever did in your life — what 
you can remember of it." 
Constant thought hard. His principal memories were of scuttling through endless corridors in 
the caves. There had been a few opportunities for what might pass for goodness with Boaz and 
the harmoniums. But Constant could not say honestly that he had availed himself of these 
opportunities to be good. 
So he thought about Mars, about all the things that had been contained in his letter to himself. 
Surely, among all those items, there was something about his own goodness. 
And then he remembered Stony Stevenson — his friend. He had had a friend, which was 
certainly a good thing. "I had a friend," said Malachi Constant into the microphone. 
"What was his name?" said Rumfoord. 
"Stony Stevenson," said Constant. 
"Just one friend?" said Rumfoord up in his treetop. "Just one," said Constant. His poor soul 
was flooded with pleasure as he realized that one friend was all that a man needed in order to be 
well-supplied with friendship. 
"So your claim of goodness would stand or fall, really," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, 
"depending on how good a friend you really were of this Stony Stevenson." "Yes," said Constant. 
"Do you recall an execution on Mars, Mr. Constant," said Rumfoord up in his treetop, 
"wherein you were the executioner? You strangled a man at the' stake before three regiments of 
the Army of Mars." 
This was one memory that Constant had done his best to eradicate. He had been successful to 
a large extent — and the rummaging he did through his mind now was sincere. He couldn't be 
sure that the execution bad taken place. "I — I think I remember," said Constant. 
"Well — that man you strangled was your great and good friend Stony Stevenson," said 
Winston Niles Rumfoord. 
Malachi Constant wept as he climbed the gilded ladder. He paused halfway up, and Rumfoord 
called to him again through the loudspeakers. 
"Feel more like a vitally-interested participant now, Mr. Constant?" called Rumfoord. 
Mr. Constant did. He had a thorough understanding now of his own worthlessness, and a bitter 
sympathy for anyone who might find it good to handle him roughly. 
And when he got to the top, he was told by Rumfoord not to close the airlock yet, because his 
mate and child would be up shortly. 
Constant sat on the threshold of his space ship at the top of the ladder, and listened to 
Rumfoord's brief sermon about Constant's dark mate, about the one. eyed, gold- toothed woman 
called Bee. Constant did not listen closely to the sermon. His eyes saw a larger, more comforting 
sermon in the panorama of town, bay, and islands so far below. 
The sermon of the panorama was that even a man without a friend in the Universe could still 
find his home planet mysteriously, heartbreakingly beautiful. 
"I shall tell you now," said Winston Niles Rumfoord in his treetop so far below Malachi 
Constant, "about Bee, the woman who sells Malachis outside the gate, the dark woman who, 
with her son, now glowers at us all. 
"While she was en route to Mars so many years ago, Malachi Constant forced his attention on 
her, and she bore him this son. Before then, she was my wife and the mistress of this estate. Her 
true name is Beatrice Rumfoord." 
A groan went up from the crowd. Was it any wonder that the dusty puppets of other religions 
had been put away for want of audiences, that all eyes were turned to Newport? Not only was the 
head of the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent capable of telling the future and fighting the 
cruelest inequalities of all, inequalities in luck — but his supply of dumfounding new sensations 
was inexhaustible. 
He was so well supplied with great material that he could actually let his voice trail off as he 
announced that the one-eyed, gold-toothed woman was his wife, and that he had been cuckolded 
by Malachi Constant. 
"I now invite you to despise the example of her life as you have so long despised the example 
of the life of Malachi Constant," he said up in his treetop mildly. "Hang her alongside Malachi 
Constant from your window blinds and light fixtures, if you will. 
"The excesses of Beatrice were excesses of reluctance," said Rumfoord. "As a younger 
woman, she felt so exquisitely bred as to do nothing and to allow nothing to be done to her, for 
fear of contamination. Life, for Beatrice as a younger woman, was too full of germs and 
vulgarity to be anything but intolerable. 
"We of the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent damn her as roundly for refusing to risk her 
imagined purity in living as we damn Malachi Constant for wallowing in filth. 
"It was implicit in Beatrice's every attitude that she was intellectually, morally, and physically 
what God intended human beings to be when perfected, and that the rest of humanity needed 
another ten thousand years in which to catch up. Again we have a case of an ordinary and 
uncreative person's tickling God Almighty pink. The proposition that God Almighty admired 
Beatrice for her touch-me-not breeding is at least as questionable as the proposition that God 
Almighty wanted Malachi Constant to be rich. 
"Mrs. Rumfoord," said Winston Niles Rumfoord up in his treetop, "I now invite you and your 
son to follow Malachi Constant into the space ship bound for Titan. Is there something you 
would like to say before you leave?" 
There was a long silence in which mother and son drew closer together and looked, shoulder 
to shoulder, at a world much changed by the news of the day. "Are you planning to address us, Mrs. Rumfoord?" said Rumfoord up in his 
treetop. 
"Yes," said Beatrice. "But it won't take me long. I believe everything you say about me is true, 
since you so seldom lie. But when my son and I walk together to that ladder and climb it, we will 
not be doing it for you, or for your silly crowd. We will be doing it for ourselves — and we will 
be proving to ourselves and to anybody who wants to watch that we aren't afraid of anything. 
Our hearts won't be breaking when we leave this planet. It disgusts us at least as much as we, 
under your guidance, disgust it. 
"I do not recall the old days," said Beatrice, "when I was mistress of this estate, when I could 
not stand to do anything or to have anything done to me. But I loved myself the instant you told 
me I'd been that way. The human race is a scummy thing, and so is Earth, and so are you." 
Beatrice and Chrono walked quickly over the catwalks and ramps to the ladder, climbed the 
ladder. They brushed past Malachi Constant in the doorway of the space ship without any sort of 
greeting. They disappeared inside. 
Constant followed them into the space ship, and joined them as they considered the 
accommodations. 
The condition of the accommodations was a surprise — and would have been a surprise to the 
custodians of the estate in particular. The space ship, seemingly inviolable at the top of a shaft in 
sacred precincts patrolled by watchmen, had plainly been the scene of one or perhaps several 
wild parties. 
The bunks were all unmade. The bedding was rumpled, twisted, and wadded. The sheets were 
stained with lipstick and shoe polish. Fried clams crunched greasily underfoot. 
Two quart bottles of Mountain Moonlight, one pint of Southern Comfort, and a dozen cans of 
Narragansett Lager Beer, all empty, were scattered through the ship. Two names were written in lipstick on the white wall by the door: Bud and 
Sylvia. And from a flange on the central shaft in the cabin hung a black brassière. 
Beatrice gathered up the bottles and beer cans. She dropped them out the door. She took the 
brassière down, and fluttered it out the doorway, awaiting a favorable wind. 
Malachi Constant, sighing and shaking his bead and mourning Stony Stevenson, used his feet 
for pushbrooms. He scuffed the fried clams toward the door. 
Young Chrono sat on a bunk, rubbing his good-luck piece. "Let's go, Mom," he said tautly. 
"For crying out loud, let's go." 
Beatrice let go of the brassière. A gust caught it, carried it over the crowd, hung it in a tree 
next to the tree in which Rumfoord sat. "Good-by, all you clean and wise and lovely people," said Beatrice. 
CHAPTER TWELVE THE GENTLEMAN FROM 
TRALFAMADORE 
"In a punctual way of speaking, good-by." 
— WINSTON NILES RUMFOORD 
Saturn has nine moons, the greatest of which is Titan. Titan is only slightly smaller than Mars. 
Titan is the only moon in the Solar System that has an atmosphere. There is plenty of oxygen to 
breathe. The atmosphere of Titan is like the atmosphere outside the back door of an Earthling 
bakery on a spring morning. 
Titan has a natural chemical furnace at its core that maintains a uniform air temperature of 
sixty-seven degrees Fahrenheit. 
There are three seas on Titan: each the size of Earthling Lake Michigan. The waters of all 
three are fresh and emerald clear. The names of the three are the Winston Sea, the Niles Sea, and 
the Rumfoord Sea. 
There is a cluster of ninety-three ponds and lakes, incipiently a fourth sea. The cluster is 
known as the Kazak Pools. 
Connecting the Winston Sea, the Niles Sea, the Rumfoord Sea and the Kazak Pools are three 
great rivers. These rivers, with their tributaries, are moody — variously roaring, listless, and torn. 
Their moods are determined by the wildly fluctuating tugs of eight fellow moons, and by the 
prodigious influence of Saturn, which has ninety-five times the mass of Earth. The three rivers 
are known as the Winston River, the Niles River, and the Rumfoord River. There are woods and meadows and mountains. 
The tallest mountain is Mount Rumfoord, which is nine thousand, five hundred and seventyone feet high. 
Titan affords an incomparable view of the most appallingly beautiful things in the Solar 
System, the rings of Saturn. These dazzling bands are forty thousand miles across and scarcely 
thicker than a razor blade. 
On Titan the rings are called Rumfoord's Rainbow. 
Saturn describes a circle around the Sun. 
It does it once every twenty-nine and a half Earthling years. 
Titan describes a circle around Saturn. 
Titan describes, as a consequence, a spiral around the Sun. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord and his dog Kazak were wave phenomena — pulsing in distorted 
spirals, with their origins in the Sun and their terminals in Betelgeuse. Whenever 
a heavenly body intercepted their spirals, Rumfoord and his dog materialized on that body. 
For reasons as yet mysterious, the spirals of Rumfoord, Kazak, and Titan coincided exactly. 
So Rumfoord and his dog were permanently materialized on Titan. 
Rumfoord and Kazak lived there on an island one mile from shore in the Winston Sea. Their 
home was a flawless reproduction of the Taj Mahal in Earthling India. 
It was built by Martian labor. 
It was Rumfood's wry fancy to call his Titan home Dun Roamin. 
Before the arrival of Malachi Constant, Beatrice, Rumfoord, and Chrono, there was only one 
other person on Titan. That other person was named Salo. He was old. Salo was eleven million 
Earthling years old. 
Salo was from another galaxy, from the Small Magellanic Cloud. He was four and a half feet 
tall. Salo had a skin with the texture and color of the skin of an Earthling tangerine. 
Salo had three light deer-like legs. His feet were of an extraordinarily interesting design, each 
being an inflatable sphere. By inflating these spheres to the size of German batballs, Salo could 
walk on water. By reducing them to the size of golf balls, Salo could bound over hard surfaces at 
high speeds. When he deflated the spheres entirely, his feet became suction cups. Salo could 
walk up walls. 
Salo had no arms. Salo had three eyes, and his eyes could perceive not only the so-called 
visible spectrum, but infrared and ultraviolet and X-rays as well. Salo was punctual — that is, he 
lived one moment at a time — and he liked to tell Rumfoord that he would rather see the 
wonderful colors at the far ends of the spectrum than either the past or the future. 
This was something of a weasel, since Salo had seen, living a moment at a time, far more of 
the past and far more of the Universe than Rumfoord had. He remembered more of what he had 
seen, too. Salo's head was round and hung on gimbals. 
His voice was an electric noise-maker that sounded like a bicycle horn. He spoke five 
thousand languages, fifty of them Earthling languages, thirty-one of them dead Earthling 
languages. 
Salo didn't live in a palace, though Rumfoord had offered to have one built for him. Salo lived 
in the open, near the space ship that had brought him to Titan two hundred thousand years 
before. His space ship was a flying saucer, the prototype for the Martian 
invasion fleet. Salo had an interesting history. 
In the Earthling year 483,441 B.C., he was chosen by popular telepathic enthusiasm as the 
most handsome, healthy, clean-minded specimen of his people. The occasion was the hundredmillionth anniversary of the government of his home planet in the Small Magellanic Cloud. The 
name of his home planet was Tralfamadore, which old Salo once translated for Rumfoord as 
meaning both all of us and the number 541. The length of a year on his home planet, according to his own calculations, was 
3.6162 times 
the length of an Earthling year — so the celebration in which he participated was actually in 
honor of a government 361, 620,000 Earthling years old. Salo once described this durable form 
of government to Rumfoord as hypnotic anarchy, but declined to explain its workings. "Either 
you understand at once what it is," he told Rumfoord, "or there is no sense in trying to explain it 
to you, Skip." 
His duty, when he was 'elected to represent Tralfamadore, was to carry a sealed message from 
"One Rim of the Universe to the Other." The planners of the ceremonies were not so deluded as 
to believe that Salo's projected route spanned the Universe. The image was 
poetic, as was Salo's 
expedition. Salo would simply take the message and go as fast and as far as the technology of 
Tralfamadore could send him. 
The message itself was unknown to Salo. It had been prepared by what Salo described to 
Rumfoord as, "A kind of university — only nobody goes to it. There aren't any buildings, isn't 
any faculty. Everybody's in it and nobody's in it. It's like a cloud that everybody has given a little 
puff of mist to, and then the cloud does all the heavy thinking for everybody. I don't mean there's 
reall y a cloud. I just mean it's something like that. If you don't understand what I'm talking about, 
Skip, there's no sense in trying to explain it to you. All I can say is, there aren't any meetings." 
The message was contained in a sealed lead wafer that was two inches square and threeeighths of an inch thick. The wafer itself was contained in a gold mesh reticule which was hung 
on a stainless steel band clamped to the shaft that might be called Salo's neck. 
Salo had orders, not to open the reticule and wafer until he arrived at his destination. His 
destination was not Titan. His destination was in a galaxy that began eighteen million light-years 
beyond Titan. The planners of the ceremonies in which Salo had participated did not know what 
Salo was going to find in the galaxy. His instructions were to find creatures in it somewhere, to 
master their language, to open the message, and to translate it for them. 
Salo did not question the good sense of his errand, since he was, like all Tralfamadorians, a 
machine. As a machine, he had to do what he was supposed to do. 
Of all the orders Salo received before taking off from Tralfamadore, the one that was given the 
most importance was that he was not, under any circumstances, to open the message along the 
wa y. This order was so emphasized that it became the very core of the little 
Tralfamadorian messenger's being. 
In the Earthling year 208,117 B.C., Salo was forced down in the Solar System by mechanical 
difficulties. He was forced down by a complete disintegration of a small part in his ship's power 
plant, a part about the size of an Earthling beer-can opener. Salo was not mechanically inclined, 
and so had only a hazy idea as to what the missing part looked like or was supposed to do. Since 
Salo's ship was powered by UWTB, the Universal Will to Become, its power plant was nothing 
for a mechanical dilettante to tinker with. Salo's ship wasn't entirely out of commission. It would still run — but limpingly, 
at only about 
sixty. eight thousand miles an hour. It was adequate for short hops around the Solar System, even 
in its crippled condition, and copies of the crippled ship did yeoman service for the Martian war 
effort. But the crippled ship was impossibly slow for the purposes of Salo's intergalactic errand. 
So old Salo holed up on Titan and he sent home to Tralfamadore word of his plight. He sent 
the message home with the speed of light, which meant that it would take one hundred and fifty 
thousand Earthling years to get to Tralfamadore. 
He developed several hobbies that helped him to pass the time. Chief among these were 
sculpture, the breeding of Titanic daisies, and watching the various activities on Earth. He could 
watch the activities on Earth by means of a viewer on the dash panel of his ship. The viewer was 
sufficiently powerful to let Salo follow the activities of Earthling ants, if he so wished. 
It was through this viewer that he got his first reply from Tralfamadore. The reply was written 
on Earth in huge stones on a plain in what is now England. The ruins of the reply still stand, and 
are known as Stonehenge. The meaning of Stonehenge in Tralfamadorian, when viewed from 
above, is: " Replacement part being rushed with all possible speed." 
Stonehenge wasn't the only message old Salo had received. 
There had been four others, all of them written on Earth. 
The Great Wall of China means in Tralfamadorian, when viewed from above: " 
Be patient. We haven't forgotten about you." 
The Golden House of the Roman Emperor Nero meant: " We are doing the best we can." 
The meaning of the Moscow Kremlin when it was first walled was: " You will be on your way 
before you know it." The meaning of the Palace of the League of Nations in Geneva, Switzerland, is: 
" Pack up your things and be ready to leave on short notice." 
Simple arithmetic will reveal that these messages all arrived with speeds considerably in 
excess of the speed of light. Salo had sent his message of distress home with the speed of light, 
and it had taken one hundred and fifty thousand years to reach Tralfamadore. He had received a 
reply from Tralfamadore in less than fifty thousand years. It is grotesque for anyone as primitive as an Earthling to explain how these swift 
communications were effected. Suffice it to say, in such primitive company, that the 
Tralfamadorians were able to make certain impulses from the Universal Will to 
Become echo 
through the vaulted architecture of the Universe with about three times the speed of light. And 
they were able to focus and modulate these impulses so as to influence creatures far, far away, 
and inspire them to serve Tralfamadorian ends. 
It was a marvelous way to get things done in places far, far away from Tralfamadore. it was 
easily the fastest way. But it wasn't cheap. 
Old Salo was not equipped himself to communicate and get things done in this way, even over 
short distances. The apparatus and the quantities of Universal Will to Become used in the process 
were colossal, and they demanded the services of thousands of technicians. 
And even the heavily-powered, heavily-manned, heavily-built apparatus of Tralfamadore was 
not particularly accurate. Old Salo had watched many communications failures on Earth. 
Civilizations would start to bloom on Earth, and the participants would start to build tremendous 
structures that were obviously to be messages in Tralfamadorian — and then the civilizations 
would poop out without having finished the messages. 
Old Salo had seen this happen hundreds of times. Old Salo had told his friend Rumfoord a lot 
of interesting things about the civilization of Tralfamadore, but he had never told Rumfoord 
about the messages and the techniques of their delivery. 
All that he had told Rumfoord was that he had sent home a distress message, and that he 
expected a replacement part to come any day now. Old Salo's mind was so different from 
Rumfoord's that Rumfoord couldn't read Salo's mind. 
Salo was grateful for that barrier between their thoughts, because he was mortally afraid of 
what Rumfoord might say if he found out that Salo's people had so much to do with gumming up 
the history of Earth. Even though Rumfoord was chrono-synclastic infundibulated, and might be 
expected to take a larger view of things, Salo had found Rumfoord to be, still, a' surprisingly 
parochial Earthling at heart. 
Old Salo didn't want Rumfoord to find out what the Tralfamadorians were doing to Earth, 
because he was sure that Rumfoord would be offended — that Rumfoord would turn against 
Salo and all Tralfamadorians. Salo didn't think he could stand that, because he loved Winston 
Niles Rumfoord. 
There was nothing offensive in this love. That is to say, it wasn't homosexual. It couldn't be, 
since Salo had no sex. 
He was a machine, like all Tralfamadorians. 
He was held together by cotter pins, hose clamps, nuts, bolts, and magnets. Salo's tangerinecolored skin, which was so expressive when he was emotionally disturbed, could be put on or 
taken off like an Earthling wind-breaker. A magnetic zipper held it shut. 
The Tralfamadorians, according to Salo, manufactured each other. No one knew for certain 
how the first machine had come into being. 
The legend was this: 
Once upon a time on Tralfamadore there were creatures who weren't anything like machines. 
They weren't dependable. They weren't efficient. They weren't predictable. They weren't durable. 
And these poor creatures were obsessed by the idea that everything that existed had to have a 
purpose, and that some purposes were higher than others. 
These creatures spent most of their time trying to find out what their purpose was. And every 
time they found out what seemed to be a purpose of themselves, the purpose seemed so low that 
the creatures were filled with disgust and shame. 
And, rather than serve such a low purpose, the creatures would make a machine to serve it. 
This left the creatures free to serve higher purposes. But whenever they found a higher purpose, 
the purpose still wasn't high enough. So machines were made to serve higher purposes, too. 
And the machines did everything so expertly that they were finally given the job of finding out 
what the highest purpose of the creatures could be. 
The machines reported in all honesty that the creatures couldn't really be said to have any 
purpose at all. 
The creatures thereupon began slaying each other, because they hated purposeless things 
above all else. And they discovered that they weren't even very good at slaying. So they turned 
that job over to the machines, too. And the machines finished up the job in less time than it takes 
to say, "Tralfamadore." 
Using the viewer on the dash panel of his space ship, Old Salo now watched the approach to 
Titan of the space ship carrying Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, and their son Chrono. 
Their ship was set to land automatically on the shore of the Winston Sea. 
It was set to land amid two million life-sized statues of human beings. Salo had made the 
statues at the rate of about ten an Earthling year. 
The statues were concentrated in the region of the Winston Sea because the statues were made 
of Titanic peat. Titanic peat abounds by the Winston Sea, only two feet under the surface soil. 
Titanic peat is a curious substance — and, for the facile and sincere sculptor, an attractive one. 
When first dug, Titanic peat has the consistency of Earthling putty. 
After one hour's exposure to Titan's light and air, the peat has the strength and hardness of 
plaster of Paris. 
After two hours' exposure, it is as durable as granite, and must be worked with a cold chisel. 
After three hours' exposure, nothing but a diamond will scratch Titanic peat. 
Salo was inspired to make so many statues by the showy ways in which Earthlings behaved. It 
wasn't so much what the Earthlings did as the way they did it that inspired Salo. 
The Earthlings behaved at all times as though there were a big eye in the sky — as though that 
big eye were ravenous for entertainment. 
The big eye was a glutton for great theater. The big eye was indifferent as to whether the 
Earthling shows were comedy, tragedy, farce, satire, athletics, or vaudeville. Its demand, which 
Earthings apparently found as irresistible as gravity, was that the shows be great. 
The demand was so powerful that Earthlings did almost nothing but perform for it, night and 
day — and even in their dreams. 
The big eye was the only audience that Earthlings really cared about. The fanciest 
performances that Salo had seen bad been put on by Earthlings who were terribly alone. The 
imagined big eye was their only audience. 
Salo, with his diamond-hard statues, had tried to preserve some of the mental states of those 
Earthlings who had put on the most interesting shows for the imagined big eye. 
Hardly less surprising than the statues were the Titanic daisies that abounded by the Winston 
Sea. When Salo arrived on Titan in 203,117 B.C, the blooms of Titanic daisies were tiny, starlike, yellow flowers barely a quarter of an inch across. 
Then Salo began to breed them selectively. 
When Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, and their son Chrono arrived on Titan, the 
typical Titanic daisy had a stalk four feet in diameter, and a lavender bloom shot with pink and 
having a mass in excess of a ton. 
Salo, having watched the approaching space ship of Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, 
and their son Chrono, inflated his feet to the size of German batballs. He stepped onto the 
emerald clear waters of the Winston Sea, crossed the waters to Winston Niles Rumfoord's Taj 
Mahal. He entered the walled yard of the palace, let the air out of his feet. The air 
hissed. The hiss 
echoed from the walls. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord's lavender contour chair by the pool was empty. 
"Skip?" called Salo. He used this most intimate of all possible names for Rumfoord, 
Rumfoord's childhood name, in spite of Rumfoord's resentment of his use of it. He didn't use the 
name in order to tease Rumfoord. He used it in order to assert the friendship he felt for 
Rumfoord — to test the friendship a little, and to watch it endure the test handsomely. 
There was a reason for Salo's putting friendship to such a sophomoric test. He had never seen, 
never even heard of friendship before he hit the Solar System. It was a fascinating novelty to 
him. He had to play with it. "Skip?" Salo called again. 
There was an unusual tang in the air. Salo identified it tentatively as ozone. He was unable to 
account for it. 
A cigarette still burned in the ash tray by Rumfoord's contour chair, so Rumfoord hadn't been 
out of his chair long. 
"Skip? Kazak?" called Salo. It was unusual for Rumfoord not to be snoozing in his chair, for 
Kazak not to be snoozing beside it. Man and dog spent most of their time by the pooi, monitoring 
signals from their other selves through space and time. Rumfoord was usually motionless in his 
chair, the fingers of one languid, dangling hand buried in Kazak's coat. Kazak was usually 
whimpering and twitching dreamingly. 
Salo looked down into the water of the rectangular pool. In the bottom of the pooi, in eight 
feet of water, were the three sirens of Titan, the three beautiful human females who had been 
offered to the lecherous Malachi Constant so long ago. 
They were statues made by Salo of Titanic peat. Of the millions of statues made by Salo, only 
these three were painted with lifelike colors. It had been necessary to paint them in order to give 
them importance in the sumptuous, oriental scheme of things in Rumfoord's palace. 
"Skip?" Salo called again. 
Kazak, the hound of space, answered the call. Kazak came from the domed and minareted 
building that was reflected in the pool. Kazak came stiffly from the lacy shadows of the great 
octagonal chamber within. Kazak looked poisoned. Kazak shivered, and stared fixedly at a point to one side of Salo. There was 
nothing there. 
Kazak stopped, and seemed to be preparing himself for a terrible pain that another step would 
cost him. And then Kazak blazed and crackled with Saint Elmo's fire. 
Saint Elmo's fire is a luminous electrical discharge, and any creature afflicted by it is subject 
to discomfort no worse than the discomfort of being tickled by a feather. All the same, the 
creature appears to be on fire, and can be forgiven for being dismayed. 
The luminous discharge from Kazak was horrifying to watch. And it renewed the stench of 
ozone. 
Kazak did not move. His capacity for surprise at the amazing display had long since been 
exhausted. He tolerated the blaze with tired rue. The blaze died. 
Rumfoord appeared in the archway. He, too, looked frowzy and palsied. A band of 
dematerialization, a band of nothingness about a foot wide, passed over Rumfoord from foot to 
head. This was followed by two narrow bands an inch apart. 
Rumfoord held his hands high, and his fingers were spread. Streaks of pink, violet, and pale 
green Saint Elmo's fire streamed from his fingertips. Short streaks of pale gold 
fizzed in his hair, 
conspiring to give him a tinsel halo. 
"Peace," said Rumfoord wanly. 
Rumfoord's Saint Elmo's fire died. 
Salo was aghast. "Skip — " he said. "What's — what's the matter, Skip?" 
"Sunspots," said Rumfoord. He shuffled to his lavender contour chair, lay his- great frame on 
it, covered his eyes with a hand as limp and white as a damp handkerchief. Kazak lay down beside him. Kazak was shivering. 
"I — I've never seen you like this before," said Salo. "There's never been a storm on the Sun 
like this before," said Rumfoord. 
Salo was not surprised to learn that sunspots affected his chrono-syndastic infundibulated 
friends. He had seen Rumfoord and Kazak sick with sunspots many times before — but the most 
severe symptom had been fleeting nausea. The sparks and the bands of dematerialization were 
new. 
As Salo watched Rumfoord and Kazak now, they became momentarily two- dimensional, like 
figures painted on rippling banners. They steadied, became rounded again. "Is there anything I can do, Skip?" said Salo. 
Rumfoord groaned. "Will people never stop asking that dreadful question?" he said. 
"Sorry," said Salo. His feet were so completely deflated now that they were concave, were 
suction cups. His feet made sucking sounds on the polished pavement. "Do you have to make those noises?" said Rumfoord peevishly. 
Old Salo wanted to die. It was the first time his friend Winston Niles Rumfoord had spoken a 
harsh word to him. Salo couldn't stand it. 
Old Salo closed two of his three eyes. The third scanned the sky. The eye was caught by two 
streaking blue dots in the sky. The dots were soaring Titanic bluebirds. 
The pair had found an updraft. 
Neither great bird flapped a wing. 
No movement of so much as a pinfeather was inharmonious. Life was but a soaring dream. 
" Graw," said one Titanic bluebird sociably. 
" Graw," the other agreed. 
The birds closed their wings simultaneously, fell from the heights like stones. 
They seemed to plummet to certain death outside Rumfoord's walls. But up they soared again, 
to begin another long and easy climb. 
This time they climbed a sky that was streaked by the vapor trail of the space ship carrying 
Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, and their son Chrono. The ship was about to land. 
"Skip — ?" said Salo. 
"Do you have to call me that?" said Rumfoord. 
"No," said Salo. 
"Then don't," said Rumfoord. "I'm not fond of the name — unless somebody I've grown up 
with happens to use it." 
"I thought — as a friend of yours — " said Salo, "I might be entitled — " 
"Shall we just drop this guise of friendship?" said Rumfoord curtly. 
Salo dosed his third eye. The skin of his torso tightened. "Guise?" he said. 
"Your feet are making that noise again!" said Rumfoord. 
"Skip!" cried Salo. He corrected this insufferable familiarity. " Winston — it's like a nightmare, 
your talking to me this way. I thought we were friends." 
"Let's say we've managed to be of some use to each other, and let it go at that," said 
Rumfoord. 
Salo's head rocked gently in its gimbals. "I thought there'd been a little more to it than that," he 
said at last. 
"Let's say," said Rumfoord acidly, "that we discovered in each other a means to our separate 
ends." 
"I — I was glad to help you — and I hope I really was a help to you," said Salo. He opened his 
eyes. He had to see Rumfoord's reaction. Surely Rumfoord would become friendly again, for 
Salo really had helped him unselfishly. 
"Didn't I give you half my UWTB?" said Salo. "Didn't I let you copy my ship for Mars? Didn't 
I fly the first few recruiting missions? Didn't I help you figure out how to control the Martians, 
so they wouldn't make trouble? Didn't I spend day after day helping you to design the new 
religion?" 
"Yes," said Rumfoord. "But what have you done for me lately?" 
"What?" said Salo. 
"Never mind," said Rumfoord curtly. "It's the tag. line on an old Earthling joke, and not a very 
funny one, under the circumstances." 
"Oh," said Salo. He knew a lot of Earthling jokes, but he didn't know that one. 
"Your feet!" cried Rumfoord. 
"I'm sorry!" cried Salo. "If I could weep like an Earthling, I would!" His grieving feet were out 
of his control. They went on making the sounds Rumfoord suddenly hated so. "I'm sorry for 
everything! All I know is, I've tried every way I know how to be a true friend, and I never asked 
for anything in return." "You didn't have to!" said Rumfoord. "You didn't have to ask for a thing. All 
you had to do 
was sit back and wait for it to be dropped in your lap." 
"What was it I wanted dropped in my lap?" said Salo incredulously. 
"The replacement part for your space ship," said Rumfoord. "It's almost here. It's arriving, sire. 
Constant's boy has it — calls it his good-luck piece — as though you didn't know." 
Rumfoord sat up, turned green, motioned for silence. "Excuse me," he said. "I'm going to be 
sick again." 
Winston Niles Rumfoord and his dog Kazak were sick again — more violently sick than 
before. It seemed to poor old Salo that this time they would surely sizzle to nothing or explode. 
Kazak howled in a ball of Saint Elmo's fire. 
Rumfoord stood bolt upright, his eyes popping, a fiery column. 
This attack passed, too. 
"Excuse me," said Rumfoord with scathing decency. "You were saying — ?" 
"What?" said Salo bleakly. 
"You were saying something — or about to say something," said Rumfoord. Only the sweat at 
his temples betrayed the fact that he had just been through something harrowing. He put a 
cigarette in a long, bone cigarette holder, lighted it. He thrust out his jaw. The cigarette holder 
pointed straight up. "We won't be interrupted again for three minutes," he said. "You were 
saying?" 
Salo recalled the subject of conversation only with effort. When he did recall it, it upset him 
more than ever. The worst possible thing had happened. Not only had Rmnfoord found out, 
seemingly, about the influence of Tralfamadore on Earthling affairs, which would have offended 
him quite enough — but Rumfoord also regarded himself, seemingly, as one of the principal 
victims of that influence. 
Salo had had an uneasy suspicion from time to time that Rumfoord was under the influence of 
Tralfamadore, but he'd pushed the thought out of his mind, since there was nothing he could do 
about it. He hadn't even discussed it, because to discuss it with Rumfoord would surely have 
ruined their beautiful friendship at once. Very lamely, Salo explored the possibility that 
Rumfoord did not know as much as he seemed to know. "Skip — " he said. "Please!" said Rumfoord. "Mr. Rumfoord — " said Salo, "you think I somehow used you?" "Not you," said Rumfoord. "Your fellow machines back on your precious 
Tralfamadore." "Um," said Salo. "You — you think you — you've been used, Skip?" 
"Tralfamadore," said Rumfoord bitterly, "reached into the Solar System, picked me up, and 
used me like a handy-dandy potato peeler!" 
"If you could see this in the future," said Salo miserably, "why didn't you mention it before?" 
"Nobody likes to think he's being used," said Rumfoord. "He'll put off admitting it to himself 
until the last possible instant.", He smiled crookedly. "It may surprise you to- learn that I take a 
certain pride, no matter how foolishly mistaken that pride may be, in making my own decisions 
for my own reasons." "I'm not surprised," said Salo. 
"Oh?" said Rumfoord unpleasantly. "I should have thought it was too subtle an attitude for a 
machine to grasp." This, surely, was the low point in their relationship. Salo was a machine, since 
he had been 
designed and manufactured. He didn't conceal the fact. But Rumfoord had never used the fact as 
an insult before. He had definitely used the fact as an insult now. Through a thin veil of noblesse 
oblige, Rumfoord let Salo know that to be a machine was to be insensitive, was to be 
unimaginative, was to be vulgar, was to be purposeful without a shred of conscience. 
Salo was pathetically vulnerable to this accusation. It was a tribute to the spiritual intimacy he 
and Rumfoord had once shared that Rumfoord knew so well bow to hurt him. 
Salo closed two of his three eyes again, watched the soaring Titanic bluebirds again. The birds 
were as big as Earthling eagles. Salo wished he were a Titanic bluebird. 
The space ship carrying Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, and their son Chrono sailed 
low over the palace, landed on the shore of the Winston Sea. 
"I give you my word of honor," said Salo, "I didn't know you were being used, and I haven't 
the slightest idea what you — " "Machine," said Rumfoord nastily. 
"Tell me what you've been used for — please?" said Salo. "My word of honor — I don't have 
the foggiest — " "Machine!" said Rumfoord. 
"If you think so badly of me, Skip — Winston — Mr. Rumfoord — " said Salo, "after all I've 
done and tried to do in the name of friendship alone, there's certainly nothing I can say or do now 
to change your mind." 
"Precisely what a machine would say," said Rumfoord. "It's what a machine did say," said Salo humbly. He inflated his feet to the size 
of German 
batballs, preparing to walk out of Rumfoord's palace and onto the waters of the Winston Sea — 
never to return. Only when his feet were fully inflated did he catch the challenge in what 
Rumfoord had said. There was a clear implication that there was something Old Salo could still 
do to make things right again. 
Even if he was a machine, Salo was sensitive enough to know that to ask what that something 
was would be to grovel. He steeled himself. In the name of friendship, he was going to grovel. 
"Skip — " he said, "tell me what to do. Anything — anything at all." 
"In a very short time," said Rumfoord, "an explosion is going to blow the terminal of my spiral 
clear off the Sun, clear out of the Solar System." "No!" cried Salo. "Skip! Skip!" 
"No, no — no pity, please," said Rumfoord, stepping back, afraid of being touched. "It's a 
very good thing, really. I'll be seeing a lot of new things, a lot of new creatures." He tried to 
smile. "One gets tired, you know, being caught up in the monotonous clockwork of the Solar 
System." He laughed harshly. "After all," he said, "it isn't as though I were dying 
or something. 
Everything that ever was always will be, and everything that ever will be always was." He shook 
his head quickly, and cast away a tear he hadn't known was on his eyelid. 
"Comforting as that chrono-synclastic infundibulated thought is," he said, "I should still like to 
know just what the main point of this Solar System episode has been." "You — you've summed it up far better than anyone else could — in your 
Pocket History of Mars," said Salo. 
" The Pocket History of Mars," said Rumfoord, "makes no mention of the fact that I have been 
powerfully influenced by forces emanating from the planet Tralfamadore." He gritted his teeth. 
"Before my dog and I go crackling off through space like buggywhips in the hands of a 
lunatic," said Rumfoord, "I should very much like to know what the message you are carrying 
is." "I — I don't know," said Salo. "It's sealed. I have orders — " 
"Against all orders from Tralfamadore," said Winston Niles Rumfoord, "against all your 
instincts as a machine, but in the name of our friendship, Salo, I want you to open the message 
and read it to me now." 
Malachi Constant, Beatrice Rumfoord, and young Chrono, their savage son, picnicked sulkily 
in the shade of a Titanic daisy by the Winston Sea. Each member of the family had a statue 
against which to lean. 
Bearded Malachi Constant, playboy of the Solar System, still wore his bright yellow suit with 
the orange question marks. It was the only suit he had. 
Constant leaned against a statue of St. Francis of Assisi. St. Francis was trying to befriend two 
hostile and terrifyingly huge birds, apparently bald eagles. Constant was unable to identify the 
birds properly as Titanic bluebirds, since he hadn't seen a Titanic bluebird yet. He had arrived on 
Titan only an hour before. 
Beatrice, looking like a gypsy queen, smoldered at the foot of a statue of a young physical 
student. At first glance, the laboratory-gowned scientist seemed to be a perfect servant of nothing 
but truth. At first glance, one was convinced that nothing but truth could please him as he 
beamed at his test tube. At first glance, one thought that he was as much above the beastly 
concerns of mankind as the harmoniums in the caves of Mercury. There, at first glance, was a 
young man without vanity, without lust — and one accepted at its face value the 
title Salo had 
engraved on the statue, Discovery of Atomic Power. 
And then one perceived that the young truth-seeker had a shocking erection. 
Beatrice hadn't perceived this yet. 
Young Chrono, dark and dangerous like his mother, was already committing his first act of 
vandalism — or was trying to. Chrono was trying to inscribe a dirty Earthling word on the base 
of the statue against which he had been leaning. He was attempting the job with a sharp corner of 
his good luck piece. 
The seasoned Titanic peat, almost as hard as diamonds, did the cutting instead, rounding off 
the corner's point. 
The statue on which Chrono was working was of a family group — a Neanderthal man, his 
mate, and their baby. It was a deeply-moving piece. The squat, shaggy, hopeful creatures were so 
ugly they were beautiful. 
Their importance and universality was not spoiled by the satiric title Salo had given the piece. 
He gave frightful titles to all his statues, as though to proclaim desperately that he did not take 
himself seriously as an artist, not for an instant. The title he gave to the Neanderthal family 
derived from the fact that the baby was being shown a human foot roasting on a crude spit. 
The title was This Little Pigg y. "No matter what happens, no matter what beautiful or sad or happy or 
frightening thing 
happens," Malachi Constant told his family there on Titan, "I'm damned if I'll respond. The 
minute it looks like something or somebody wants me to act in some special way, I will freeze." 
He glanced up at the rings of Saturn, curled his lip. "Isn't that just too beautiful for words?" He 
spat on the ground. 
"If anybody ever expects to use me again in some tremendous scheme of his," said Constant, 
"be is in for one big disappointment. He will be a lot better off trying to get a rise out of one of 
these statues." He spat again. 
"As far as I'm concerned," said Constant, "the Universe is a junk yard, with everything in it 
overpriced. I am through poking around in the junk heaps, looking for bargains. Every so-called 
bargain," said Constant, "has been connected by fine wires to a dynamite bouquet." He spat 
again. "I resign," said Constant. 
"I withdraw," said Constant. "I quit," said Constant. 
Constant's little family agreed without enthusiasm. Constant's brave speech was stale stuff. He 
had delivered it many times during the seventeen-month voyage from Earth to Titan — and it 
was, after all, a routine philosophy for all Martian veterans. 
Constant wasn't really speaking to his family anyway. He was speaking loudly, so his voice 
would carry some distance into the forest of statuary and over the Winston Sea. He was making a 
policy statement for the benefit of Rumfoord or anybody else who might be lurking near by. 
"We have taken part for the last time," said Constant loudly, "in experiments and fights and 
festivals we don't like or understand!" 
"' Understand — '" came an echo from the wall of a palace on an island two- hundred yards 
offshore. The palace was, of course, Dun Roamin, Rumfoord's Taj Mahal. Constant wasn't 
surprised to see the palace out there. He had seen it when he disembarked from his space ship, 
had seen it shining out there like St. Augustine's City of God. "What happens next?" Constant asked the echo. "All the statues come to life?" "' Life!" said the echo. 
"It's an echo," said Beatrice. "I know it's an echo," said Constant. 
"I didn't know if you knew it was an echo or not," said Beatrice She was distant and polite. 
She had been extremely decent to Constant, blaming him for nothing, expecting nothing from 
him. A less aristocratic woman might have put him through hell, blam. ing him for everything 
and demanding miracles. 
There had been no love-making during the voyage. Neither Constant nor Beatrice had been 
interested. Martian veterans never were. 
Inevitably, the long voyage had drawn Constant closer to his mate and child — closer than 
they had been on the gilded system of catwalks, ramps, ladders, pulpits, steps and stages in 
Newport. But the only love in the family unit was still the love between young Chrono and 
Beatrice. Other than the love between mother and son there was only politeness, glum 
compassion, and suppressed indignation at having been forced to be a family at all. 
"Oh, my — " said Constant, "life is funny when you stop to think of it." Young Chrono did not smile when his father said life was funny. 
Young Chrono was the member of the family least in a position to think life was funny. 
Beatrice and Constant, after all, could laugh bitterly at the wild incidents they had survived. But 
young Chrono couldn't laugh with them, because he himself was a wild incident. 
Small wonder that young Chrono's chief treasures were a good-luck piece and a switchblade 
knife. 
Young Chrono now drew his switchblade knife, flicked open the blade nonchalantly. His eyes 
narrowed. He was preparing to kill, if killing should become necessary. He was looking in the 
direction of a gilded rowboat that had put out from the palace on the island. 
It was being rowed by a tangerine-colored creature. The oarsman was, of course, Salo. He was 
bringing the boat in order to transport the family back to the palace. Salo was a bad oarsman, 
never having rowed before. He grasped the oars with his suction-cup feet. 
He had one advantage over human oarsmen, in that be had an eye in the back of his head. 
Young Chrono flashed light into Old Salo's eye, flashed it with his bright knife blade. 
Salo's back eye blinked. 
Flashing the light into the eye was not a piece of skylarking on Chrono's part. It was a piece of 
jungle cunning, a piece of cunning calculated to make almost any sort of sighted creature uneasy. 
It was one of a thousand pieces of jungle cunning that young Chrono and his 
mother had learned in their year together in the Amazon Rain Forest. 
Beatrice's brown hand closed on a rock. "Worry him again," she said softly to Chrono. 
Young Chrono again flashed the light in Old Salo's eye. 
"His body looks like the only soft part," said Beatrice, without moving her lips. "If you can't 
get his body, try for an eye." Chrono nodded. 
Constant was chilled, seeing what an efficient unit of self-defense his mate and son made 
together. Constant was not included in their plans. They had no need of him. 
"What should I do?" whispered Constant. 
"Sh!" said Beatrice sharply. 
Salo beached his gilded craft. He made it fast with a clumsy landlubber's knot to the wrist of a 
statue by the water. The statue was of a nude woman playing a slide trombone. It was entitled, 
enigmatically, Evelyn and Her Magic Violin. Salo was too jangled by sorrow to care for his own safety — to understand, 
even, that he 
might be frightening to someone. He stood for a moment on a block of seasoned Titanic peat 
near his landing. His grieving feet sucked at the damp stone. He pried loose his feet with a 
tremendous effort. 
On he came, the flashes from Chrono's knife dazzling him. 
"Please — " he said. 
A rock flew out of the knife's dazzle. 
Salo ducked. 
A hand siezed his bony throat, threw him down. 
Young Chrono now stood astride Old Salo, his knife point pricking Salo's chest. Beatrice knelt 
by Salo's head, a rock poised to smash his head to bits. 
"Go on — kill me," said Salo raspingly. "You'd be doing me a favor. I wish I were dead. I 
wish to God I'd never been assembled and started up in the first place. Kill me, put me out of my 
misery, and then go see him. He's asking for you." 
"Who is?" said Beatrice. 
"Your poor husband — my former friend, Winston Niles Rumfoord," said Salo. 
"Where is he?" said Beatrice. 
"In that palace on the island," said Salo. "He's dying — all alone, except for his faithful dog. 
He's asking for you — " said Salo, "asking for all of you. And he says he never wants to lay his 
eyes on me again." 
Malachi Constant watched the lead-colored lips kiss thin air soundlessly. The tongue behind 
the lips clicked infinitesimally. The lips suddenly drew back, baring the perfect teeth of Winston 
Niles Rumfoord. 
Constant was himself showing his teeth, preparing to gnash them appropriately at the sight of 
this man who had done him so much harm. He did not gnash them. For one thing, no one was 
looking — no one would see him do it and understand. For another thing, Constant found 
himself destitute of hate. 
His preparations for gnashing his teeth decayed into a yokel gape — the gape of a yokel in the 
presence of a spectacularly mortal disease. 
Winston Niles Rumfoord was lying, fully materialized, on his back on his lavender contour 
chair by the pool. His eyes were directed at the sky, unblinkingly and seemingly sightless. One 
fine hand dangled over the side of the chair, its limp fingers laced in the choke chain of Kazak, 
the hound of space. The chain was empty. 
An explosion on the Sun had separated man and dog. A Universe schemed in mercy would 
have kept man and dog together. 
The Universe inhabited by Winston Niles Rumfoord and his dog was not schemed in mercy. 
Kazak had been sent ahead of his master on the great mission to nowhere and nothing. 
Kazak had left howling in a puff of ozone and sick light, in a hum like swarming bees. 
Rumfoord let the empty choke chain slip from his fingers. The chain expressed deadness, 
made a formless sound and a formless heap, was a soulless slave of gravity, born with a broken 
spine. 
Rumfoord's lead-colored lips moved. "Hello, Beatrice — wife," he said sepulchrally. 
"Hello, Space Wanderer," he said. He made his voice affectionate this time. "Gallant of you to 
come, Space Wanderer — to take one more chance with me. 
"Hello, illustrious young bearer of the illustrious name of Chrono," said Rumfoord. "Hail, oh 
German batball star — hail, him of the good-luck piece." 
The three to whom he spoke stood just inside the wall. The pool was between them and 
Rumfoord. 
Old Salo, who had not been granted his wish to die, grieved in the stern of the gilded rowboat 
that was beached outside the wail. 
"I am not dying," said Rumfoord. "I am merely taking my leave of the Solar System. And I am 
not even doing that. In the grand, in the timeless, in the chrono-synclastic 
infundibulated way of looking at things, I shall always be here. I shall always be wherever I've been. 
"I'm honeymooning with you still, Beatrice," he said. "I'm talking to you still in a little room 
under the stairway in Newport, Mr. Constant. Yes — and playing peek-a-boo in the caves of 
Mercury with you and Boaz. And Chrono — " he said, "I'm watching you still as you play 
German batball so well on the iron playground of Mars." 
He groaned. It was a tiny groan — and so sad. 
The sweet, mild air of Titan carried the tiny groan away. 
"Whatever we've said, friends, we're saying still — such as it was, such as it is, such as it will 
be," said Rumfoord. The tiny groan came again. Rumfoord watched it leave as though it were a smoke ring. 
"There is something you should know about life in the Solar System," he said. "Being chronosynclastic infundibulated, I've known about it all along. It is, none the less, such a sickening 
thing that I've thought about it as little as possible. "The sickening thing is this: 
" Everything that every Earthling has ever done has been warped by creatures on a planet one- 
hundred-and-fifty thousand light years awa y. The name of the planet is Tralfamadore. 
"How the Tralfamadorians controlled us, I don't know. But I know to what end they controlled 
us. They controlled us in such a way as to make us deliver a replacement part to a 
Tralfamadorian messenger who was grounded right here on Titan." Rumfoord pointed a finger at young Chrono. "You, young man — " he said. 
"You have it in 
your pocket. In your pocket is the culmination of all Earthling history. In your pocket is the 
mysterious something that every Earthling was trying so desperately, so earnestly, so gropingly, 
so exhaustingly to produce and deliver." A fizzing twig of electricity grew from the tip of Rumfoord's accusing finger. 
"The thing you call your good-luck piece," said Rumfoord, "is the replacement part for which 
the Tralfamadorian messenger has been waiting so long! 
"The messenger," said Rumfoord, "is the tangerine-colored creature who now cowers outside 
the walls. His name is Salo. I had hoped that the messenger would' give mankind a glimpse of 
the message he was carrying, since mankind was giving him such a nice boost on his way. 
Unfortunately, he is under orders to show the message to no one. He is a machine, and, as a 
machine, he has no choice but to regard orders as orders. "I asked him politely to show me the message," said Rumfoord. "He desperately 
refused." 
The fizzing twig of electricity on Rumfoord's finger grew, forming a spiral around Rumfoord. 
Rumfoord considered the spiral with sad contempt. "I think perhaps this is it," he said of the 
spiral. 
It was indeed. The spiral telescoped slightly, making a curtsey. And then it began to revolve 
around Rumfoord, spinning a continuous cocoon of green light. It barely whispered as it spun. 
"All I can say," said Rumfoord from the cocoon, "is that I have tried my best to do good for 
my native Earth while serving the irresistible wishes of Tralfamadore. 
"Perhaps, now that the part has been delivered to the Tralfamadorian messenger, Tralfamadore 
will leave the Solar System alone. Perhaps Earthlings will now be free to develop and follow 
their own inclinations, as they have not been free to do for thousands of years." He sneezed. "The 
wonder is that Earthlings have been able to make as much sense as they have," he said. 
The green cocoon left the ground, hovered over the dome. "Remember me as a gentleman of 
Newport, Earth, and the Solar System," said Rumfoord. He sounded serene again, at peace with 
himself, and at least equal to any creature that he might encounter anywhere. 
"In a punctual way of speaking," came Rumfoord's glottal tenor from the cocoon, "good-by." 
The cocoon and Rumfoord disappeared with a pft. Rumfoord and his dog were never seen again. 
Old Salo came bounding into the courtyard just as Rumfoord and his cocoon disappeared. 
The little Tralfamadorian was wild. He had torn the message from its band around his throat 
with a suction-cup foot. One foot was still a suction cup, and in it was the message. 
He looked up at the place where the cocoon had hovered. "Skip!" he cried into the sky. "Skip! 
The message! I'll tell you the message! The message! Skiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiip!" His head did a somersault in its gimbals. "Gone," he said emptily. He whispered, 
"Gone. 
"Machine?" said Salo. He was speaking haltingly, as much to himself as to Constant, Beatrice 
and Chrono. "A machine I am, and so are my people," he said. "I was designed and 
manufactured, and no expense, no skill, was spared in making me dependable, efficient, 
predictable, and durable. I was the best machine my people could make. "How good a machine have I proved to be?" asked Salo. 
"Dependable?" he said. "I was depended upon to keep my message sealed until I reached my 
destination, and now I've torn it open. 
"Efficient?" he said. "Having lost my best friend in the Universe, it now costs me more energy 
to step over a dead leaf than it once cost me to bound over Mount Rumfoord. 
"Predictable?" he said. "After watching human beings for two hundred thousand Earthling 
years, I have become as skittish and sentimental as the silliest Earthling schoolgirl. 
"Durable?" he said darkly. "We shall see what we shall see." He laid the message he had been carrying so long on Rumfoord's empty, 
lavender contour chair. 
"There it is — friend," he said to his memory of Rumfoord, "and much consolation may it give 
you, Skip. Much pain it cost your old friend Salo. In order to give it to you — even too late — 
your old friend Salo had to make war against the core of his being, against the very nature of 
being a machine. "You asked the impossible of a machine," said Salo, "and the machine complied. 
"The machine is no longer a machine," said Salo. "The machine's contacts are corroded, his 
bearings fouled, his circuits shorted, and his gears stripped. His mind buzzes and pops like the 
mind of an Earthling — fizzes and overheats with thoughts of love, honor, dignity, rights, 
accomplishment, integrity, independence — " 
Old Salo picked up the message again from Rumfoord's contour chair. It was written on a thin 
square of aluminum. The message was a single dot. 
"Would you like to know how I have been used, how my life has been wasted?" he said. 
"Would you like to know what the message is that I have been carrying for almost half a million 
Earthling years — the message I am supposed to carry for eighteen million more years?" 
He held out the square of aluminum in a cupped foot. "A dot," he said. "A single dot," he said. "The meaning of a dot in Tralfamadorian," said Old Salo, "is — "Greetings." 
The little machine from Tralfamadore, having delivered this message to himself, to Constant, 
to Beatrice, and to Chrono over a distance of one hundred and fifty thousand light years, 
bounded abruptly out of the courtyard and onto the beach outside. 
He killed himself out there. He took himself apart and threw his parts in all directions. 
Chrono went out on the beach alone, wandered thoughtfully among Salo's parts. Chrono had 
always known that his good-luck piece had extraordinary powers and extraordinary meanings. 
And he had always suspected that some superior creature would eventually come to claim the 
good-luck piece as his own. It was in the nature of truly effective good-luck pieces that human 
beings never really owned them. 
They simply took care of them, had the benefit of them, until the real owners, the superior 
owners, came along. 
Chrono did not have a sense of futility and disorder. 
Everything seemed in apple-pie order to him. 
And the boy himself participated fitly in that perfect order. 
He took his good-luck piece from his pocket, dropped it without regret to the sand, dropped it 
among Salo's scattered parts. 
Sooner or later, Chrono believed, the magical forces of the Universe would put everything 
back together again. They always did. 
EPILOGUE REUNION WITH STONY 
"You are tired, so very tired, Space Wanderer, Malachi, Unk. Stare at the faintest star, Earthling, and think how heavy your limbs are growing." — SALO 
There isn't much more to tell. 
Malachi Constant grew to be an old man on Titan. Beatrice Rumfoord grew to be an old 
woman on Titan. 
They died peacefully, died within twenty-four hours of each other. They died in their seventyfourth years. 
Only the Titanic bluebirds know for sure what happened, finally, to Chrono, their son. 
When Malachi Constant turned seventy-four years old, he was crusty, sweet, and bandylegged. He was totally bald, and went naked most of the time, wearing nothing but a neatlytrimmed, white vandyke beard. 
He lived in Salo's grounded space ship, had been living there for thirty years. 
Constant had not tried to fly the space ship. He hadn't dared to touch a single control. The 
controls of Salo's ship were far more complex than those of a Martian ship. Salo's dash panel 
offered Constant two hundred and seventy-three knobs, switches, and buttons, each with a 
Tralfamadorian inscription or calibration. The controls were anything but a hunchplayer's delight 
in a Universe composed of one-trillionth part matter to one decillion parts black velvet futility. 
Constant had tinkered with the ship only to the extent of finding out gingerly if, as Rumfoord 
had said, Chrono's good-luck piece really would serve as a part of the power plant. 
Superficially, at any rate, the good-luck piece would. There was an access door to the ship's 
power plant that had plainly leaked smoke at one time. Constant opened it, found a sooty 
compartment within. And under the soot were smudged bearings and cams that related to 
nothing. 
Constant was able to slip the holes in Chrono's good-luck piece onto those bearings and 
between the cams. The good-luck piece conformed to close tolerances and surrounding 
clearances in a way that would have pleased a Swiss machinist. 
Constant had many hobbies that helped him to pass the balmy time in the salubrious clime of 
Titan. 
His most interesting hobby was puttering around with Salo, the dismantled Tralfamadorian 
messenger. Constant spent thousands of hours trying to get Salo back together 
and going again. So far, he had had no luck. 
When Constant first undertook the reconstruction of the little Tralfamadorian, it had been with 
the express hope that Salo would then agree to fly young Chrono back to Earth. 
Constant wasn't eager to fly back to Earth, and neither was his mate Beatrice. But Constant 
and Beatrice had agreed that their son, with most of his life ahead of him, should live that life 
with busy and jolly contemporaries on Earth. 
By the time Constant was seventy-four, however, getting young Chrono back to Earth was no 
longer a pressing problem. Young Chrono was no longer particularly young. He was forty-two. 
And he had made such a thorough and specialized adjustment on Titan that it would have been 
cruel in the extreme to send him anywhere else. 
At the age of seventeen, young Chrono had run away from his palatial home to join the Titanic 
bluebirds, the most admirable creatures on Titan. Chrono now lived among their nests by the 
Kazak pools. He wore their feathers and sat on their eggs and shared their food and spoke their 
language. 
Constant never saw Chrono. Sometimes, late at night, he would hear Chrono's cries. Constant 
did not answer the cries. The cries were for nothing and nobody on Titan. They were for Phoebe, a passing moon. 
Sometimes, when Constant was out gathering Titanic strawberries or the speckled, two-pound 
eggs of the Titanic plover, he would come upon a little shrine made of sticks and stones in a 
clearing. Chrono made hundreds of these shrines. 
The elements in the shrines were always the same One large stone was at the center, 
representing Saturn. A wooden hoop made of a green twig was placed around it — to represent 
Saturn's rings. And beyond the rings were small stones to represent the nine moons, The largest 
of these satellite stones was Titan. And there was always the feather of a Titanic bluebird under 
it. 
The marks on the ground made it clear that young Chrono, no longer so young, spent hours 
moving the elements of the system about. 
When old Malachi Constant found one of his strange son's shrines in a state of neglect, he 
would tidy it up as best he could. Constant would weed it and rake it, and make a new twig ring 
for the stone that was Saturn. He would put a fresh bluebird feather under the stone that was 
Titan. 
Tidying up the shrines was as close, spiritually, as Constant could get to his son. He respected what his son was trying to do with religion. 
And sometimes, when Constant gazed at a refurbished shrine, he moved the elements of his 
own life about experimentally — but he did it in his head. At such times he was likely to reflect 
in melancholy on two things in particular — his murder of Stony Stevenson, his best and only 
friend, and his winning, so late in life, the love of Beatrice Rumfoord. 
Constant never found out whether Chrono knew who tidied up the shrines. Chrono may have 
thought his god or gods were doing it. It was all so sad. But it was all so beautiful, too. 
Beatrice Rumfoord lived alone in Rumfoord's Taj Mahal. Her contacts with Chrono were far 
more harrowing than Constant's. At unpredictable intervals, Chrono would swim out to the 
palace, dress himself from Rumfoord's wardrobe, announce that it was his mother's birthday, and 
spend the day in indolent, sullen, reasonably civilized discourse. 
At the end of such a day, Chrono would rage at the clothes and his mother and civilization. He 
would tear off the clothes, scream like a bluebird, and dive into the Winston Sea. 
When Beatrice had suffered through one of these birthday parties, she would thrust an oar into 
the sand of the beach that faced the nearest shore, and she would fly a white sheet from it. 
It was a signal for Malachi Constant, begging him please to come at once, to help her calm 
down. 
And when Constant arrived in response to the signal of distress, Beatrice always comforted 
herself with the same words. 
"At least," she would say, "he isn't a mama's boy. And at least he had the greatness of soul to 
join the noblest, most beautiful creatures in sight." The white sheet, the signal of distress, was flying now. 
Malachi Constant put out from shore in a dugout canoe. The gilded rowboat that had come 
with the palace had long since been sunk by dry rot. 
Constant was wearing an old blue wool bathrobe that had once belonged to Rumfoord. He had 
found it in the palace, had taken it when his Space Wanderer's suit wore out. It was his only 
garment, and he wore it only when he went calling on Beatrice. 
Constant had in the dugout canoe with him six plovers' eggs, two quarts of wild Titanic 
strawberries, a three-gallon peat crock of fermented daisy milk, a bushel of daisy seeds, eight 
books he had borrowed from the forty-thousand-volume library in the palace, and a home-made 
broom and a home-made shovel. 
Constant was self-sufficient. He raised or gathered or made everything he needed. This 
satisfied him enormously. 
Beatrice was not dependent on Constant. Rumfoord had stocked the Taj Mahal lavishly with 
Earthling food and Earthling liquor. Beatrice had plenty to eat and drink, and always would have. 
Constant was bringing native foods to Beatrice because he was so proud of his skills as a 
woodsman and husbandman. He liked to show off his skills as a provider. It was a compulsion. 
Constant had his broom and shovel along in the dugout canoe because Beatrice's palace was 
always a broom-and-shovel mess. Beatrice did no cleaning, so Constant got rid of the worst of 
the refuse whenever he paid her a visit. 
Beatrice Rumfoord was a springy, one-eyed, goldtoothed, brown old lady — as lean and tough 
as a chair slat. But the class of the damaged and roughly-used old lady showed through. 
To anyone with a sense of poetry, mortality, and wonder, Malachi Constant's proud, highcheekboned mate was as handsome as a human being could be. 
She was probably a little crazy. On a moon with only two other people on it, she was writing a 
book called The True Purpose of Life in the Solar System. It was a refutation of 
Rumfoord's 
notion that the purpose of human life in the Solar System was to get a grounded messenger from 
Tralfamadore on his way again. 
Beatrice began the book after her son left her to join the bluebirds. The manuscript so far, 
written in longhand, occupied thirty-eight cubic feet inside the Taj Mahal. 
Every time Constant visited her, she read aloud her latest additions to the manuscript. 
She was reading out loud now, sitting in Rumfoord's old contour chair while Constant puttered 
about the courtyard. She was wearing a pink and white chenille bedspread that had come with 
the palace. Worked into the tufts of the bedspread was the message, God does not care. 
It had been Rumfoord's own personal bedspread. 
On and on Beatrice read, spinning arguments against the importance of the forces of 
Tralfamadore. 
Constant did not listen attentively. He simply enjoyed Beatrice's voice, which was strong and 
triumphant. He was down in a manhole by the pool, turning a valve that would drain the water 
out. The water of the pool had been turned into something like cream of pea soup by Titanic 
algae. Every time Constant visited Beatrice he fought a losing battle against the 
prolific green murk. 
"'I would be the last to deny,'" said Beatrice, reading her own work out loud, "'that the forces 
of Tralfamadore have had something to do with the affairs of Earth. However, those persons who 
have served the interests of Tralfamadore have served them in such highly personalized ways 
that Tralfamadore can be said to have had practically nothing to do with the case.'" 
Constant, down in the manhole, put his ear to the valve be had opened. From the sound of it, 
the water was draining slowly. 
Constant swore. One of the vital pieces of information that had disappeared with Rumfoord 
and died with Salo was how they had managed, in their time, to keep the pool so crystal clean. 
Ever since Constant had taken over maintenance of the pool, the algae had been building up. The 
pool's bottoms and sides were lined with a blanket of viscid slime, and the three statues in the 
middle, the three Sirens of Titan, were under a mucilaginous hump. 
Constant knew of the significance of the three sirens in his life. He had read about it — both in 
the Pocket History of Mars and The Winston Niles Rumfoord Authorized Revised Bible. The 
three great beauties didn't mean so much to him now, really, except to remind him that sex had 
once bothered him. 
Constant climbed out of the manhole. "Drains slower every time," he said to Beatrice. "I don't 
guess I can put off digging up the pipes much longer." "That so?" said Beatrice, looking up from her writing. "That's so," said Constant. "Well — you do whatever needs to be done," said Beatrice. "That's the story of my life," said Constant. 
"I just had an idea that ought to go in the book," said Beatrice, "if I can just keep it from 
getting away." "I'll hit it with a shovel, if it comes this way," said Constant. 
"Don't say anything for a minute," said Beatrice. "Just let me get it straight in my head." She 
stood, and went into the entry of the palace to escape the distractions of Constant and the rings of 
Saturn. 
She looked long at a large oil painting hanging on the entry wall. It was the only painting in 
the palace. Constant had had it brought all the way from Newport. 
It was a painting of an immaculate little girl in white, holding the reins of a white pony all her 
own. 
Beatrice knew who the little girl was. The painting was labeled with a brass plate that said, 
Beatrice Rumfoord as a Young Girl. It was quite a contrast — between the little girl in white and the old lady looking 
at her. 
Beatrice suddenly turned her back on the painting, walked out into the courtyard again. The 
idea she wanted to add to her book was straight in her mind now. 
"The worst thing that could possibly happen to anybody," she said, "would be to not be used 
for anything by anybody." 
The thought relaxed her. She lay-down on Rumfoord's old contour chair, looked up at the 
appallingly beautiful rings of Saturn — at Rumfoord's Rainbow. 
"Thank you for using me," she said to Constant, "even though I didn't want to be used by 
anybody." "You're welcome," said Constant. 
He began to sweep the courtyard. The litter he was sweeping was a mixture of sand, which 
had blown in from the outside, daisy-seed hulls, Earthling peanut hulls, empty cans of boned 
chicken, and discarded wads of manuscript paper. Beatrice subsisted mostly on daisy seeds, 
peanuts, and boned chicken because she didn't have to cook them, because she didn't even have 
to interrupt her writing in order to eat them. 
She could eat with one hand and write with the other — and, more than anything else in life, 
she wanted to get everything written down. With his sweeping half done, Constant paused to see how the pool was draining. 
It was draining slowly. The slimy green hump that covered the three Sirens of Titan was just 
breaking the descending surface. 
Constant leaned over the open manhole, listened to the water sounds. 
He heard the music of the pipes. And he heard something else, too. 
He heard the absence of a familiar and a beloved sound. 
His mate Beatrice wasn't breathing any more. 
Malachi Constant buried his mate in Titanic peat on the shore of the Winston Sea. She was 
buried where there were no statues. 
Malachi Constant said good-by to her when the sky was filled with Titanic bluebirds. There 
must have been ten thousand, at least, of the great and noble birds. They made night of day, made the air quake with their beating wings. Not one bird cried out. 
And in that night in the midst of day, Chrono, the son of Beatrice and Malachi, appeared on a 
knoll overlooking the new grave. He wore a feather cape which he flapped like wings. 
He was gorgeous and strong. 
"Thank you, Mother and Father," he shouted, "for the gift of life. Good-by!" 
He was gone, and the birds went with him. 
Old Malachi Constant went back to the palace with a heart as heavy as a cannonball. What 
drew him back to that sad place was a wish to leave it in good order. Sooner or later, someone else would come. 
The palace should be neat and clean and ready for them. The palace should speak well of the 
former tenant. 
Around Rumfoord's worn contour chair were the plovers' eggs and wild Titanic strawberries, 
and the crock of fermented daisy milk and the basket of daisy seeds that Constant had given to 
Beatrice. They were perishables. They would not last until the next tenant came. These Constant put back in his dugout canoe. 
He didn't need them. Nobody needed them. As he straightened up his old back from the canoe, 
he saw Salo, the little messenger from Tralfamadore, walking across the water toward him. 
"How do you do," said Constant. "How do you do," said Salo. "Thank you for putting me back together again." 
"I didn't think I did it right," said Constant. "I couldn't get a peep out of you." 
"You did it right," said Salo. "I just couldn't make up my mind whether or not I wanted to 
peep." He let the air out of his feet with a hiss, "I guess I'll be moseying along," he said. 
"You're going to deliver your message after all?" said Constant. 
"Anybody who has traveled this far on a fool's errand," said Salo, "has no choice but to uphold 
the honor of fools by completing the errand." "My mate died today," said Constant. 
"Sorry," said Salo. "I would say, 'Is there anything I can do?' — but Skip once told me that 
that was the most hateful and stupid expression in the English language." 
Constant rubbed his hands together. The only company he had left on Titan was whatever 
company his right hand could be for his left. "I miss her," he said. "You finally fell in love, I see," said Salo. 
"Only an Earthling year ago," said Constant. "It took us that long to realize that a purpose of 
human life, no matter who is controlling it, is to love whoever is around to be loved." 
"If you or your son would like a ride back to Earth," said Salo, "it wouldn't be much out of my 
way." "My boy joined the bluebirds," said Constant. 
"Good for him!" said Salo. "I'd join them, if they'd have me." "Earth," said Constant wonderingly. 
"We could be there in a matter of hours," said Salo, "now that the ship's running right again." 
"It's lonely here," said Constant, "now that — " He shook his head. 
On the trip back to Earth, Salo suspected that he had made a tragic mistake in suggesting to 
constant that he return to Earth. He had begun to suspect this when Constant insisted on being 
taken to Indianapolis, Indiana, U.S.A. 
This insistence of Constant's was a dismaying development, since Indianapolis was far from 
an ideal place for a homeless old man. 
Salo wanted to let him off by a shuffleboard court in St. Petersburg, Florida, U.S.A., but 
Constant, after the fashion of old men, could not be shaken from his first decision. He wanted to 
go to Indianapolis, and that was that. 
Salo assumed that Constant had relatives or possibly old business connections in Indianapolis, 
but this turned out not to be the case. 
"I don't know anybody in Indianapolis, and I don't know anything about Indianapolis except 
for one thing," said Constant, "a thing I read in a book," "What did you read in a book?" said Salo uneasily. 
"Indianapolis, Indiana," said Constant, "is the first place in the United States of America 
where a white man was hanged for the murder of. an Indian. The kind of people who'll hang a 
white man for murdering an Indian — " said Constant, "that's the kind of people for me." 
Salo's head did a somersault in its gimbals. His feet made grieved sucking sounds on the iron 
floor. His passenger, obviously, knew almost nothing about the planet toward which he was 
being carried with a speed approaching that of light. At least Constant had money. 
There was hope in that. He had close to three thousand dollars in various Earthling currencies, 
taken from the pockets of Rumfoord's suits in the Taj Mahal. And at least he had clothes. 
He had on a terribly baggy but good tweed suit of Rumfoord's, complete with a Phi Beta 
Kappa key that hung from the watch chain that spanned the front of the vest. 
Salo had made Constant take the key along with the suit. 
Constant had a good overcoat, a hat, and overshoes, too. 
With Earth only an hour away, Salo wondered what else he could do to make the remainder of 
Constant's life supportable, even in Indianapolis. And he decided to hypnotize Constant, in order that the last few seconds of 
Constant's life, at least, would please the old man tremendously. Constant's life would end well. 
Constant was already in a nearly hypnotic state, staring out at the Cosmos through a porthole. 
Salo came up behind him and spoke to him soothingly. 
"You are tired, so very tired, Space Wanderer, Malachi, Unk," said Salo. "Stare at the faintest 
star, Earthling, and think how heavy your limbs are growing." 
"Heavy," said Constant. 
"You are going to die some day, Unk," said Salo. "Sorry, but it's true." 
"True," said Constant. "Don't be sorry." 
"When you know you are dying, Space Wanderer," said Salo hypnotically, "a wonderful thing 
will happen to you." He then described to Constant the happy things that Constant would 
imagine before his life flickered out. 
It would be a post-hypnotic illusion. 
"Awake!" said Salo. 
Constant shuddered, turned away from the porthole. "Where am I?" he said. 
"On a Tralfamadorian space ship out of Titan, bound for Earth," said Salo. 
"Oh," said Constant. "Of course," he said a moment later. "I must have been asleep." 
"Take a nap," said Salo. 
"Yes — I — I think I will," said Constant. He lay down on a bunk. He dropped off to sleep. 
Salo strapped the sleeping Space Wanderer to his bunk. Then he strapped himself to his seat at 
the controls. He set three dials, double-checked the reading on each. He pressed a bright red 
button. He sat back. There was nothing more to do now. 
From now on everything was automatic. In thirty-six minutes, the ship would land itself near 
the end of a bus line on the outskirts of Indianapolis, Indiana, U.S.A., Earth, Solar System, Milky 
Way. 
It would be three in the morning there. 
It would also be winter. 
The space ship landed in four inches of fresh snow in a vacant lot on the south side of 
Indianapolis. No one was awake to see it land. 
Malachi Constant got out of the space ship. "That's your bus stop over there, old soldier," 
whispered Salo. It was necessary to whisper, for a two-story frame house with an open bedroom 
window was only thirty feet away. Salo pointed to a snowy bench by the street. "You'll have to 
wait about ten minutes," he whispered. "The bus will take you right into the center of town. Ask 
the driver to let you off near a good hotel." 
Constant nodded. "I'll be all right," he whispered. "How do you feel?" whispered Salo. "Warm 
as toast," whispered Constant. The complaint of a vaguely disturbed sleeper came from the open 
bedroom window near by. "Aw, somebody," the sleeper complained, " afo wa, de-yah, 
ummmmmmmmmmmm." 
"You really all right?" whispered Salo. 
"Yes. Fine," whispered Constant. "Warm as toast." 
"Good luck," whispered Salo. 
"We don't say that down here," whispered Constant. 
Salo winked. "I'm not from down here," he whispered. He looked around at the perfectly white 
world, felt the wet kisses of the snowflakes, pondered hidden meanings in the pale yellow 
streetlights that shone in a world so whitely asleep. "Beautiful," he whispered. "Isn't it?" whispered Constant. 
" Sim-faw!" cried the sleeper menacingly, to anyone who might menace his sleep. "Soo! A-so! 
What's a mabba? Nf." "You better go," whispered Constant. "Yes," whispered Salo. "Good-by," whispered Constant, "and thanks." 
"You're entirely welcome," whispered Salo. He backed into the ship, closed the airlock. The 
ship arose with the sound of a man blowing over the mouth of a bottle. It disappeared into the 
swirling snow and was gone. "Toodle-oo," it said. 
Malachi Constant's feet squeaked in the snow as he walked to the bench. He brushed aside the 
snow on the bench and sat down. 
" Fraugh!" cried the sleeper, as though he suddenly understood all. 
"Braugh!" he cried, not liking at all what he suddenly understood. 
"Sup-foe!" he said, saying in no uncertain terms what he was going to do about it. 
"Floof!" he cried. 
The conspirators presumably fled. 
More snow fell. 
The bus Malachi Constant was waiting for ran two hours late that morning — on, account of 
the snow. When the bus did come it was too late. Malachi Constant was dead. 
Salo had hypnotized him so that he would imagine, as he died, that he saw his best and only 
friend, Stony Stevenson. 
As the snow drifted over Constant, he imagined that the clouds opened up, letting through a 
sunbeam, a sunbeam all for him. 
A golden space ship encrusted with diamonds came skimming down the sunbeam, landed in 
the untouched snow of the street. 
Out stepped a stocky, red-headed man with a big cigar. He was young. He wore the uniform of 
the Martian Assault Infantry, Unk's old outfit. 
"Hello, Unk," he said. "Get in." 
"Get in?" said Constant. "Who are you?" 
"Stony Stevenson, Unk. You don't recognize me?" 
"Stony?" said Constant. "That's you, Stony?" 
"Who else could stand the bloody pace?" said Stony. He laughed. "Get in," he said. 
"And go where?" said Constant. "Paradise," said Stony. 
"What's Paradise like?" said Constant. "Everybody's happy there forever," said Stony, "or as 
long as the bloody Universe holds together. Get in, Unk. Beatrice is already there, waiting for 
you." "Beatrice?" said Unk, getting into the space ship. Stony closed the airlocks, 
pressed the on 
button. "We're — we're going to Paradise now?" said Constant. "I — I'm going to get into 
Paradise?" "Don't ask me why, old sport," said Stony, "but somebody up there likes you." 

ALL THIS HAPPENED, more or less. The war parts, anyway, are pretty much true. One
guy I knew really was shot in Dresden for taking a teapot that wasn’t his. Another guy I knew really did threaten to have his personal enemies killed by hired gunmen after the war. And so on. I’ve changed all the names.
I really did go back to Dresden with Guggenheim money (God love it) in 1967. It looked a lot like Dayton, Ohio, more open spaces than Dayton has. There must be tons of human bone meal in the ground.
I went back there with an old war buddy, Bernard V. O’Hare, and we made friends with a cab driver, who took us to the slaughterhouse where we had been locked up at night as prisoners of war. His name was Gerhard Müller. He told us that he was a prisoner of the Americans for a while. We asked him how it was to live under Communism, and he said that it was terrible at 􏰀rst, because everybody had to work so hard, and because there wasn’t much shelter or food or clothing. But things were much better now. He had a pleasant little apartment, and his daughter was getting an excellent education. His mother was incinerated in the Dresden fire-storm. So it goes.
He sent O’Hare a postcard at Christmastime, and here is what it said:
“I wish you and your family also as to your friend Merry Christmas and a happy New Year and I hope that we’ll meet again in a world of peace and freedom in the taxi cab if the accident will.”
I like that very much: “If the accident will.”
I would hate to tell you what this lousy little book cost me in money and anxiety and time. When I got home from the Second World War twenty-three years ago, I thought it would be easy for me to write about the destruction of Dresden, since all I would have to do would be to report what I had seen. And I thought, too, that it would be a masterpiece or at least make me a lot of money, since the subject was so big.
But not many words about Dresden came from my mind then—not enough of them to make a book, anyway. And not many words come now, either, when I have become an old fart with his memories and his Pall Malls, with his sons full grown.
I think of how useless the Dresden part of my memory has been, and yet how tempting Dresden has been to write about, and I am reminded of the famous limerick:
There was a young man from Stamboul, Who soliloquized thus to his tool:
“You took all my wealth
  
And you ruined my health,
And now you won’t pee, you old fool.”
And I’m reminded, too, of the song that goes:
My name is Yon Yonson,
I work in Wisconsin,
I work in a lumbermill there.
The people I meet when I walk down the street, They say, “What’s your name?”
And I say, My name is Yon Yonson,
I work in Wisconsin ...”
And so on to infinity.
Over the years, people I’ve met have often asked me what I’m working on, and I’ve usually replied that the main thing was a book about Dresden.
I said that to Harrison Starr, the movie-maker, one time, and he raised his eyebrows and inquired, “Is it an anti-war book?”
“Yes,” I said. “I guess.”
“You know what I say to people when I hear they’re writing anti-war books?”
“No. What do you say, Harrison Starr?”
“I say, ‘Why don’t you write an anti-glacier book instead?’”
What he meant, of course, was that there would always be wars, that they were as easy to stop as glaciers. I believe that, too.
And even if wars didn’t keep coming like glaciers, there would still be plain old death.
When I was somewhat younger, working on my famous Dresden book, I asked an old war buddy named Bernard V. O’Hare if I could come to see him. He was a district attorney in Pennsylvania. I was a writer on Cape Cod. We had been privates in the war, infantry scouts. We had never expected to make any money after the war, but we were doing quite well.
I had the Bell Telephone Company 􏰀nd him for me. They are wonderful that way. I have this disease late at night sometimes, involving alcohol and the telephone. I get drunk, and I drive my wife away with a breath like mustard gas and roses. And then, speaking gravely and elegantly into the telephone, I ask the telephone operators to connect me with this friend or that one, from whom I have not heard in years.
I got O’Hare on the line in this way. He is short and I am tall. We were Mutt and Je􏰃 in the war. We were captured together in the war. I told him who I was on the telephone. He had no trouble believing it. He was up. He was reading. Everybody else in his house was asleep.
 
“Listen—” I said, “I’m writing this book about Dresden. I’d like some help remembering stu􏰃. I wonder if I could come down and see you, and we could drink and talk and remember.”
He was unenthusiastic. He said he couldn’t remember much. He told me, though, to come ahead.
“I think the climax of the book will be the execution of poor old Edgar Derby,” I said. “The irony is so great. A whole city gets burned down, and thousands and thousands of people are killed. And then this one American foot soldier is arrested in the ruins for taking a teapot. And he’s given a regular trial, and then he’s shot by a 􏰀ring squad.”
“Um,” said O’Hare.
“Don’t you think that’s really where the climax should come?”
“I don’t know anything about it,” he said. “That’s your trade, not mine.”
As a tra􏰂cker in climaxes and thrills and characterization and wonderful dialogue and suspense and confrontations, I had outlined the Dresden story many times. The best outline I ever made, or anyway the prettiest one, was on the back of a roll of wallpaper.
I used my daughter’s crayons, a di􏰃erent color for each main character. One end of the wallpaper was the beginning of the story, and the other end was the end, and then there was all that middle part, which was the middle. And the blue line met the red line and then the yellow line, and the yellow line stopped because the character represented by the yellow line was dead. And so on. The destruction of Dresden was represented by a vertical band of orange cross-hatching, and all the lines that were still alive passed through it, came out the other side.
The end, where all the lines stopped, was a beet􏰀eld on the Elbe, outside of Halle. The rain was coming down. The war in Europe had been over for a couple of weeks. We were formed in ranks, with Russian soldiers guarding us—Englishmen, Americans, Dutchmen, Belgians, Frenchmen, Canadians, South Africans, New Zealanders, Australians, thousands of us about to stop being prisoners of war.
And on the other side of the 􏰀eld were thousands of Russians and Poles and Yugoslavians and so on guarded by American soldiers. An exchange was made there in the rain—one for one. O’Hare and I climbed into the back of an American truck with a lot of others. O’Hare didn’t have any souvenirs. Almost everybody else did. I had a ceremonial Luftwa􏰃e saber, still do. The rabid little American I call Paul Lazzaro in this book had about a quart of diamonds and emeralds and rubies and so on. He had taken these from dead people in the cellars of Dresden. So it goes.
An idiotic Englishman, who had lost all his teeth somewhere, had his souvenir in a canvas bag. The bag was resting on my insteps. He would peek into the bag every now and then, and he would roll his eyes and swivel his scrawny neck, trying to catch people looking covetously at his bag. And he would bounce the bag on my insteps.
 
I thought this bouncing was accidental. But I was mistaken. He had to show somebody what was in the bag, and he had decided he could trust me. He caught my eye, winked, opened the bag. There was a plaster model of the Ei􏰃el Tower in there. It was painted gold. It had a clock in it.
“There’s a smashin’ thing,” he said.
And we were 􏰁own to a rest camp in France, where we were fed chocolate malted milkshakes and other rich foods until we were all covered with baby fat. Then we were sent home, and I married a pretty girl who was covered with baby fat, too.
And we had babies.
And they’re all grown up now, and I’m an old fart with his memories and his Pall Malls. My name is Yon Yonson, I work in Wisconsin, I work in a lumbermill there.
Sometimes I try to call up old girl friends on the telephone late at night, after my wife has gone to bed. “Operator, I wonder if you could give me the number of a Mrs. So- and-So. I think she lives at such-and-such.”
“I’m sorry, sir. There is no such listing.”
“Thanks, Operator. Thanks just the same.”
And I let the dog out, or I let him in, and we talk some. I let him know I like him, and he lets me know he likes me. He doesn’t mind the smell of mustard gas and roses.
“You’re all right, Sandy,” I’ll say to the dog. “You know that, Sandy? You’re O.K.”
Sometimes I’ll turn on the radio and listen to a talk program from Boston or New York. I can’t stand recorded music if I’ve been drinking a good deal.
Sooner or later I go to bed, and my wife asks me what time it is. She always has to know the time. Sometimes I don’t know, and I say, “Search me.”
I think about my education sometimes. I went to the University of Chicago for a while after the Second World War. I was a student in the Department of Anthropology. At that time, they were teaching that there was absolutely no di􏰃erence between anybody. They may be teaching that still.
Another thing they taught was that nobody was ridiculous or bad or disgusting. Shortly before my father died, he said to me, “You know—you never wrote a story with a villain in it.”
I told him that was one of the things I learned in college after the war.
While I was studying to be an anthropologist, I was also working as a police reporter for the famous Chicago City News Bureau for twenty-eight dollars a week. One time they switched me from the night shift to the day shift, so I worked sixteen hours straight. We were supported by all the newspapers in town, and the AP and the UP and all that. And we would cover the courts and the police stations and the Fire Department and the Coast Guard out on Lake Michigan and all that. We were connected to the
 
institutions that supported us by means of pneumatic tubes which ran under the streets of Chicago.
Reporters would telephone in stories to writers wearing headphones, and the writers would stencil the stories on mimeograph sheets. The stories were mimeographed and stu􏰃ed into the brass and velvet cartridges which the pneumatic tubes ate. The very toughest reporters and writers were women who had taken over the jobs of men who’d gone to war.
And the 􏰀rst story I covered I had to dictate over the telephone to one of those beastly girls. It was about a young veteran who had taken a job running an old- fashioned elevator in an o􏰂ce building. The elevator door on the 􏰀rst 􏰁oor was ornamental iron lace. Iron ivy snaked in and out of the holes. There was an iron twig with two iron lovebirds perched upon it.
This veteran decided to take his car into the basement, and he closed the door and started down, but his wedding ring was caught in all the ornaments. So he was hoisted into the air and the 􏰁oor of the car went down, dropped out from under him, and the top of the car squashed him. So it goes.
So I phoned this in, and the woman who was going to cut the stencil asked me, “What did his wife say?”
“She doesn’t know yet,” I said. “It just happened.”
“Call her up and get a statement.”
“What?”
“Tell her you’re Captain Finn of the Police Department. Say you have some sad news. Give her the news, and see what she says.”
So I did. She said about what you would expect her to say. There was a baby. And so on.
When I got back to the o􏰂ce, the woman writer asked me, just for her own information, what the squashed guy had looked like when he was squashed.
I told her.
“Did it bother you?” she said. She was eating a Three Musketeers Candy Bar. “Heck no, Nancy,” I said. “I’ve seen lots worse than that in the war.”
Even then I was supposedly writing a book about Dresden. It wasn’t a famous air raid back then in America. Not many Americans knew how much worse it had been than Hiroshima, for instance. I didn’t know that, either. There hadn’t been much publicity.
I happened to tell a University of Chicago professor at a cocktail party about the raid as I had seen it, about the book I would write. He was a member of a thing called The Committee on Social Thought. And he told me about the concentration camps, and about how the Germans had made soap and candles out of the fat of dead Jews and so
 
on. All I could say was, “I know, I know. I know.”
 World War Two had certainly made everybody very tough. And I became a public relations man for General Electric in Schenectady, New York, and a volunteer 􏰀reman in the village of Alplaus, where I bought my 􏰀rst home. My boss there was one of the toughest guys I ever hope to meet. He had been a lieutenant colonel in public relations in Baltimore. While I was in Schenectady he joined the Dutch Reformed Church, which is a very tough church, indeed.
He used to ask me sneeringly sometimes why I hadn’t been an o􏰂cer, as though I’d done something wrong.
My wife and I had lost our baby fat. Those were our scrawny years. We had a lot of scrawny veterans and their scrawny wives for friends. The nicest veterans in Schenectady, I thought, the kindest and funniest ones, the ones who hated war the most, were the ones who’d really fought.
I wrote the Air Force back then, asking for details about the raid on Dresden, who ordered it, how many planes did it, why they did it, what desirable results there had been and so on. I was answered by a man who, like myself, was in public relations. He said that he was sorry, but that the information was top secret still.
I read the letter out loud to my wife, and I said, “Secret? My God—from whom?”
We were United World Federalists back then. I don’t know what we are now.
Telephoners, I guess. We telephone a lot—or I do, anyway, late at night.
A couple of weeks after I telephoned my old war buddy, Bernard V. O’Hare, I really did go to see him. That must have been in 1964 or so—whatever the last year was for the New York World’s Fair. Eheu, fugaces labuntur anni. My name is Yon Yonson. There was a young man from Stamboul.
I took two little girls with me, my daughter, Nanny, and her best friend, Allison Mitchell. They had never been o􏰃 Cape Cod before. When we saw a river, we had to stop so they could stand by it and think about it for a while. They had never seen water in that long and narrow, unsalted form before. The river was the Hudson. There were carp in there and we saw them. They were as big as atomic submarines.
We saw waterfalls, too, streams jumping o􏰃 cli􏰃s into the valley of the Delaware. There were lots of things to stop and see—and then it was time to go, always time to go. The little girls were wearing white party dresses and black party shoes, so strangers would know at once how nice they were. “Time to go, girls,” I’d say. And we would go.
And the sun went down, and we had supper in an Italian place, and then I knocked on the front door of the beautiful stone house of Bernard V. O’Hare. I was carrying a
  
bottle of Irish whiskey like a dinner bell.
 I met his nice wife, Mary, to whom I dedicate this book. I dedicate it to Gerhard Müller, the Dresden taxi driver, too. Mary O’Hare is a trained nurse, which is a lovely thing for a woman to be.
Mary admired the two little girls I’d brought, mixed them in with her own children, sent them all upstairs to play games and watch television. It was only after the children were gone that I sensed that Mary didn’t like me or didn’t like something about the night. She was polite but chilly.
“It’s a nice cozy house you have here,” I said, and it really was.
“I’ve fixed up a place where you can talk and not be bothered,” she said.
“Good,” I said, and I imagined two leather chairs near a 􏰀re in a paneled room, where two old soldiers could drink and talk. But she took us into the kitchen. She had put two straight-backed chairs at a kitchen table with a white porcelain top. That table top was screaming with re􏰁ected light from a two-hundred-watt bulb overhead. Mary had prepared an operating room. She put only one glass on it, which was for me. She explained that O’Hare couldn’t drink the hard stuff since the war.
So we sat down. O’Hare was embarrassed, but he wouldn’t tell me what was wrong. I couldn’t imagine what it was about me that could burn up Mary so. I was a family man. I’d been married only once. I wasn’t a drunk. I hadn’t done her husband any dirt in the war.
She 􏰀xed herself a Coca-Cola, made a lot of noise banging the ice-cube tray in the stainless steel sink. Then she went into another part of the house. But she wouldn’t sit still. She was moving all over the house, opening and shutting doors, even moving furniture around to work off anger.
I asked O’Hare what I’d said or done to make her act that way.
“It’s all right,” he said. “Don’t worry about it. It doesn’t have anything to do with you.” That was kind of him. He was lying. It had everything to do with me.
So we tried to ignore Mary and remember the war. I took a couple of belts of the booze I’d brought. We would chuckle or grin sometimes, as though war stories were coming back, but neither one of us could remember anything good. O’Hare remembered one guy who got into a lot of wine in Dresden, before it was bombed, and we had to take him home in a wheelbarrow. It wasn’t much to write a book about. I remembered two Russian soldiers who had looted a clock factory. They had a horse-drawn wagon full of clocks. They were happy and drunk. They were smoking huge cigarettes they had rolled in newspaper.
That was about it for memories, and Mary was still making noise. She 􏰀nally came out in the kitchen again for another Coke. She took another tray of ice cubes from the refrigerator, banged it in the sink, even though there was already plenty of ice out.

Then she turned to me, let me see how angry she was, and that the anger was for me. She had been talking to herself, so what she said was a fragment of a much larger conversation. “You were just babies then!” she said.
“What?” I said.
“You were just babies in the war—like the ones upstairs!”
I nodded that this was true. We had been foolish virgins in the war, right at the end of childhood.
“But you’re not going to write it that way, are you.” This wasn’t a question. It was an accusation.
“I—I don’t know,” I said.
“Well, I know,” she said. “You’ll pretend you were men instead of babies, and you’ll be played in the movies by Frank Sinatra and John Wayne or some of those other glamorous, war-loving, dirty old men. And war will look just wonderful, so we’ll have a lot more of them. And they’ll be fought by babies like the babies upstairs.”
So then I understood. It was war that made her so angry. She didn’t want her babies or anybody else’s babies killed in wars. And she thought wars were partly encouraged by books and movies.
So I held up my right hand and I made her a promise: “Mary,” I said, “I don’t think this book of mine is ever going to be 􏰀nished. I must have written 􏰀ve thousand pages by now, and thrown them all away. If I ever do 􏰀nish it, though, I give you my word of honor: there won’t be a part for Frank Sinatra or John Wayne.
“I tell you what,” I said, “I’ll call it ‘The Children’s Crusade.’” She was my friend after that.
O’Hare and I gave up on remembering, went into the living room, talked about other things. We became curious about the real Children’s Crusade, so O’Hare looked it up in a book he had, Extraordinary Popular Delusions and the Madness of Crowds, by Charles Mackay, LL. D. It was first published in London in 1841.
Mackay had a low opinion of all Crusades. The Children’s Crusade struck him as only slightly more sordid than the ten Crusades for grown-ups. O’Hare read this handsome passage out loud:
History in her solemn page informs us that the crusaders were but ignorant and savage men, that their motives were those of bigotry unmitigated, and that their pathway was one of blood and tears. Romance, on the other hand, dilates upon their piety and heroism, and portrays, in her most glowing and impassioned hues, their virtue and magnanimity, the imperishable honor they acquired for themselves, and the great services they rendered to Christianity.
  
And then O’Hare read this: Now what was the grand result of all these struggles? Europe expended millions of her treasures, and the blood of two million of her people; and a handful of quarrelsome knights retained possession of Palestine for about one hundred years!
Mackay told us that the Children’s Crusade started in 1213, when two monks got the idea of raising armies of children in Germany and France, and selling them in North Africa as slaves. Thirty thousand children volunteered, thinking they were going to Palestine. They were no doubt idle and deserted children who generally swarm in great cities, nurtured on vice and daring, said Mackay, and ready for anything.
Pope Innocent the Third thought they were going to Palestine, too, and he was thrilled. “These children are awake while we are asleep!” he said.
Most of the children were shipped out of Marseilles, and about half of them drowned in shipwrecks. The other half got to North Africa where they were sold.
Through a misunderstanding, some children reported for duty at Genoa, where no slave ships were waiting. They were fed and sheltered and questioned kindly by good people there—then given a little money and a lot of advice and sent back home.
“Hooray for the good people of Genoa,” said Mary O’Hare.
I slept that night in one of the children’s bedrooms. O’Hare had put a book for me on the bedside table. It was Dresden, History, Stage and Gallery, by Mary Endell. It was published in 1908, and its introduction began:
It is hoped that this little book will make itself useful. It attempts to give to an English- reading public a bird’s-eye view of how Dresden came to look as it does, architecturally; of how it expanded musically, through the genius of a few men, to its present bloom; and it calls attention to certain permanent landmarks in art that make its Gallery the resort of those seeking lasting impressions.
I read some history further on:
Now, in 1760, Dresden underwent siege by the Prussians. On the 􏰀fteenth of July began the cannonade. The Picture-Gallery took 􏰀re. Many of the paintings had been transported to the Königstein, but some were seriously injured by splinters of bombshells,—notably Francia’s “Baptism of Christ.” Furthermore, the stately Kreuzkirche tower, from which the enemy’s movements had been watched day and night, stood in 􏰁ames. It later succumbed. In sturdy contrast with the pitiful fate of the Kreuzkirche, stood the Frauenkirche, from the curves of whose stone dome the Prussian bombs rebounded like rain. Friederich was obliged 􏰀nally to give up the siege, because he learned of the fall of Glatz, the critical point of his new conquests. “We must be off to Silesia, so that we do not lose everything.”
The devastation of Dresden was boundless. When Goethe as a young student visited the city, he still found sad ruins: “Von der Kuppel der Frauenkirche sah ich diese leidigen Trümmer zwischen die schöne städtische Ordnung hineingesät; da rühmte mir der Küster die Kunst des Baumeisters, welcher Kirche und Kuppel auf einen so unerwünschten Fall schon eingerichtet und bombenfest erbaut hatte. Der gute Sakristan deutete mir alsdann auf Ruinene nach allen Seiten und sagte bedenklich lakonisch: Das hat der Feind gethan!”

 The two little girls and I crossed the Delaware River where George Washington had crossed it, the next morning. We went to the New York World’s Fair, saw what the past had been like, according to the Ford Motor Car Company and Walt Disney, saw what the future would be like, according to General Motors.
And I asked myself about the present: how wide it was, how deep it was, how much was mine to keep.
I taught creative writing in the famous Writers Workshop at the University of Iowa for a couple of years after that. I got into some perfectly beautiful trouble, got out of it again. I taught in the afternoons. In the mornings I wrote. I was not to be disturbed. I was working on my famous book about Dresden.
And somewhere in there a nice man named Seymour Lawrence gave me a three- book contract, and I said, “O.K., the 􏰀rst of the three will be my famous book about Dresden.”
The friends of Seymour Lawrence call him “Sam.” And I say to Sam now: “Sam— here’s the book.”
It is so short and jumbled and jangled, Sam, because there is nothing intelligent to say about a massacre. Everybody is supposed to be dead, to never say anything or want anything ever again. Everything is supposed to be very quiet after a massacre, and it always is, except for the birds.
And what do the birds say? All there is to say about a massacre, things like “Poo-tee- weet?”
I have told my sons that they are not under any circumstances to take part in massacres, and that the news of massacres of enemies is not to 􏰀ll them with satisfaction or glee.
I have also told them not to work for companies which make massacre machinery, and to express contempt for people who think we need machinery like that.
As I’ve said: I recently went back to Dresden with my friend O’Hare. We had a million laughs in Hamburg and West Berlin and East Berlin and Vienna and Salzburg and Helsinki, and in Leningrad, too. It was very good for me, because I saw a lot of authentic backgrounds for made-up stories which I will write later on. One of them will be “Russian Baroque” and another will be “No Kissing” and another will be “Dollar Bar” and another will be “If the Accident Will,” and so on.
     
And so on.
 There was a Lufthansa plane that was supposed to 􏰁y from Philadelphia to Boston to Frankfurt. O’Hare was supposed to get on in Philadelphia and I was supposed to get on in Boston, and o􏰃 we’d go. But Boston was socked in, so the plane 􏰁ew straight to Frankfurt from Philadelphia. And I became a non-person in the Boston fog, and Lufthansa put me in a limousine with some other non-persons and sent us to a motel for a non-night.
The time would not pass. Somebody was playing with the clocks, and not only with the electric clocks, but the wind-up kind, too. The second hand on my watch would twitch once, and a year would pass, and then it would twitch again.
There was nothing I could do about it. As an Earthling, I had to believe whatever clocks said—and calendars.
I had two books with me, which I’d meant to read on the plane. One was Words for the Wind, by Theodore Roethke, and this is what I found in there:
I wake to sleep, and take my waking slow. I feel my fate in what I cannot fear.
I learn by going where I have to go.
My other book was Erika Ostrovsky’s Céline and His Vision. Céline was a brave French soldier in the First World War—until his skull was cracked. After that he couldn’t sleep, and there were noises in his head. He became a doctor, and he treated poor people in the daytime, and he wrote grotesque novels all night. No art is possible without a dance with death, he wrote.
The truth is death, he wrote. I’ve fought nicely against it as long as I could ... danced with it, festooned it, waltzed it around ... decorated it with streamers, titillated it ...
Time obsessed him. Miss Ostrovsky reminded me of the amazing scene in Death on the Installment Plan where Céline wants to stop the bustling of a street crowd. He screams on paper, Make them stop ... don’t let them move anymore at all ... There, make them freeze ... once and for all! ... So that they won’t disappear anymore!
I looked through the Gideon Bible in my motel room for tales of great destruction. The sun was risen upon the Earth when Lot entered into Zo-ar, I read. Then the Lord rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and 􏰀re from the Lord out of Heaven; and He overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.
  So it goes.

Those were vile people in both those cities, as is well known. The world was better off without them.
And Lot’s wife, of course, was told not to look back where all those people and their homes had been. But she did look back, and I love her for that, because it was so human.
So she was turned to a pillar of salt. So it goes.
People aren’t supposed to look back. I’m certainly not going to do it anymore.
I’ve finished my war book now. The next one I write is going to be fun.
This one is a failure, and had to be, since it was written by a pillar of salt. It begins like this:
Listen:
Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck in time. It ends like this:
Poo-te e -we e t?
 
2 LISTEN:
Billy Pilgrim has come unstuck in time.
Billy has gone to sleep a senile widower and awakened on his wedding day. He has walked through a door in 1955 and come out another one in 1941. He has gone back through that door to 􏰀nd himself in 1963. He has seen his birth and death many times, he says, and pays random visits to all the events in between.
He says.
Billy is spastic in time, has no control over where he is going next, and the trips aren’t necessarily fun. He is in a constant state of stage fright, he says, because he never knows what part of his life he is going to have to act in next.
Billy was born in 1922 in Ilium, New York, the only child of a barber there. He was a funny-looking child who became a funny-looking youth—tall and weak, and shaped like a bottle of Coca-Cola. He graduated from Ilium High School in the upper third of his class, and attended night sessions at the Ilium School of Optometry for one semester before being drafted for military service in the Second World War. His father died in a hunting accident during the war. So it goes.
Billy saw service with the infantry in Europe, and was taken prisoner by the Germans. After his honorable discharge from the Army in 1945, Billy again enrolled in the Ilium School of Optometry. During his senior year there, he became engaged to the daughter of the founder and owner of the school, and then su􏰃ered a mild nervous collapse.
He was treated in a veteran’s hospital near Lake Placid, and was given shock treatments and released. He married his 􏰀ancée, 􏰀nished his education, and was set up in business in Ilium by his father-in-law. Ilium is a particularly good city for optometrists because the General Forge and Foundry Company is there. Every employee is required to own a pair of safety glasses, and to wear them in areas where manufacturing is going on. GF&F has sixty-eight thousand employees in Ilium. That calls for a lot of lenses and a lot of frames.
Frames are where the money is.
Billy became rich. He had two children, Barbara and Robert. In time, his daughter
    
Barbara married another optometrist, and Billy set him up in business. Billy’s son Robert had a lot of trouble in high school, but then he joined the famous Green Berets. He straightened out, became a fine young man, and he fought in Vietnam.
Early in 1968, a group of optometrists, with Billy among them, chartered an airplane to 􏰁y them from Ilium to an international convention of optometrists in Montreal. The plane crashed on top of Sugarbush Mountain, in Vermont. Everybody was killed but Billy. So it goes.
While Billy was recuperating in a hospital in Vermont, his wife died accidentally of carbon-monoxide poisoning. So it goes.
When Billy 􏰀nally got home to Ilium after the airplane crash, he was quiet for a while. He had a terrible scar across the top of his skull. He didn’t resume practice. He had a housekeeper. His daughter came over almost every day.
And then, without any warning, Billy went to New York City, and got on an all- night radio program devoted to talk. He told about having come unstuck in time. He said, too, that he had been kidnapped by a 􏰁ying saucer in 1967. The saucer was from the planet Tralfamadore, he said. He was taken to Tralfamadore, where he was displayed naked in a zoo, he said. He was mated there with a former Earthling movie star named Montana Wildhack.
Some night owls in Ilium heard Billy on the radio, and one of them called Billy’s daughter Barbara. Barbara was upset. She and her husband went down to New York and brought Billy home. Billy insisted mildly that everything he had said on the radio was true. He said he had been kidnapped by the Tralfamadorians on the night of his daughter’s wedding. He hadn’t been missed, he said, because the Tralfamadorians had taken him through a time warp, so that he could be on Tralfamadore for years, and still be away from Earth for only a microsecond.
Another month went by without incident, and then Billy wrote a letter to the Ilium News Leader, which the paper published. It described the creatures from Tralfamadore.
The letter said that they were two feet high, and green, and shaped like plumber’s friends. Their suction cups were on the ground, and their shafts, which were extremely 􏰁exible, usually pointed to the sky. At the top of each shaft was a little hand with a green eye in its palm. The creatures were friendly, and they could see in four dimensions. They pitied Earthlings for being able to see only three. They had many wonderful things to teach Earthlings, especially about time. Billy promised to tell what some of those wonderful things were in his next letter.
Billy was working on his second letter when the 􏰀rst letter was published. The second letter started out like this:
   
“The most important thing I learned on Tralfamadore was that when a person dies he only appears to die. He is still very much alive in the past, so it is very silly for people to cry at his funeral. All moments, past, present, and future, always have existed, always will exist. The Tralfamadorians can look at all the di􏰃erent moments just the way we can look at a stretch of the Rocky Mountains, for instance. They can see how permanent all the moments are, and they can look at any moment that interests them. It is just an illusion we have here on Earth that one moment follows another one, like beads on a string, and that once a moment is gone it is gone forever.
“When a Tralfamadorian sees a corpse, all he thinks is that the dead person is in bad condition in that particular moment, but that the same person is just 􏰀ne in plenty of other moments. Now, when I myself hear that somebody is dead, I simply shrug and say what the Tralfamadorians say about dead people, which is ‘So it goes.’”
And so on.
Billy was working on this letter in the basement rumpus room of his empty house. It was his housekeeper’s day off. There was an old typewriter in the rumpus room. It was a beast. It weighed as much as a storage battery. Billy couldn’t carry it very far very easily, which was why he was writing in the rumpus room instead of somewhere else.
The oil burner had quit. A mouse had eaten through the insulation of a wire leading to the thermostat. The temperature in the house was down to 􏰀fty degrees, but Billy hadn’t noticed. He wasn’t warmly dressed, either. He was barefoot, and still in his pajamas and a bathrobe, though it was late afternoon. His bare feet were blue and ivory.
The cockles of Billy’s heart, at any rate, were glowing coals. What made them so hot was Billy’s belief that he was going to comfort so many people with the truth about time. His door chimes upstairs had been ringing and ringing. It was his daughter Barbara up there, wanting in. Now she let herself in with a key, crossed the 􏰁oor over his head, calling, “Father? Daddy, where are you?” And so on.
Billy didn’t answer her, so she was nearly hysterical, expecting to 􏰀nd his corpse. And then she looked into the very last place there was to look—which was the rumpus room.
“Why didn’t you answer me when I called?” Barbara wanted to know, standing there in the door of the rumpus room. She had the afternoon paper with her, the one in which Billy described his friends from Tralfamadore.
“I didn’t hear you,” said Billy.
The orchestration of the moment was this: Barbara was only twenty-one years old, but she thought her father was senile, even though he was only forty-six—senile because of damage to his brain in the airplane crash. She also thought that she was head of the
  
family, since she had had to manage her mother’s funeral, since she had to get a housekeeper for Billy, and all that. Also, Barbara and her husband were having to look after Billy’s business interests, which were considerable, since Billy didn’t seem to give a damn for business any more. All this responsibility at such an early age made her a bitchy 􏰁ibbertigibbet. And Billy, meanwhile, was trying to hang onto his dignity, to persuade Barbara and everybody else that he was far from senile, that, on the contrary, he was devoting himself to a calling much higher than mere business.
He was doing nothing less now, he thought, than prescribing corrective lenses for Earthling souls. So many of those souls were lost and wretched, Billy believed, because they could not see as well as his little green friends on Tralfamadore.
•••
“Don’t lie to me, Father,” said Barbara. “I know perfectly well you heard me when I called.” This was a fairly pretty girl, except that she had legs like an Edwardian grand piano. Now she raised hell with him about the letter in the paper. She said he was making a laughing stock of himself and everybody associated with him.
“Father, Father, Father—” said Barbara, “what are we going to do with you? Are you going to force us to put you where your mother is?” Billy’s mother was still alive. She was in bed in an old people’s home called Pine Knoll on the edge of Ilium.
“What is it about my letter that makes you so mad?” Billy wanted to know.
“It’s all just crazy. None of it’s true!”
“It’s all true.” Billy’s anger was not going to rise with hers. He never got mad at anything. He was wonderful that way.
“There is no such planet as Tralfamadore.”
“It can’t be detected from Earth, if that’s what you mean,” said Billy. “Earth can’t be detected from Tralfamadore, as far as that goes. They’re both very small. They’re very far apart.”
“Where did you get a crazy name like ‘Tralfamadore?’”
“That’s what the creatures who live there call it.”
“Oh God,” said Barbara, and she turned her back on him. She celebrated frustration by clapping her hands. “May I ask you a simple question?”
“Of course.”
“Why is it you never mentioned any of this before the airplane crash?” “I didn’t think the time was ripe.”
And so on. Billy says that he 􏰀rst came unstuck in time in 1944, long before his trip to Tralfamadore. The Tralfamadorians didn’t have anything to do with his coming unstuck. They were simply able to give him insights into what was really going on.
 Billy 􏰀rst came unstuck while World War Two was in progress. Billy was a

chaplain’s assistant in the war. A chaplain’s assistant is customarily a 􏰀gure of fun in the American Army. Billy was no exception. He was powerless to harm the enemy or to help his friends. In fact, he had no friends. He was a valet to a preacher, expected no promotions or medals, bore no arms, and had a meek faith in a loving Jesus which most soldiers found putrid.
While on maneuvers in South Carolina, Billy played hymns he knew from childhood, played them on a little black organ which was waterproof. It had thirty-nine keys and two stops—vox humana and vox celeste. Billy also had charge of a portable altar, an olive-drab attaché case with telescoping legs. It was lined with crimson plush, and nestled in that passionate plush were an anodized aluminum cross and a Bible.
The altar and the organ were made by a vacuum-cleaner company in Camden, New Jersey—and said so.
One time on maneuvers Billy was playing “A Mighty Fortress Is Our God,” with music by Johann Sebastian Bach and words by Martin Luther. It was Sunday morning. Billy and his chaplain had gathered a congregation of about 􏰀fty soldiers on a Carolina hillside. An umpire appeared. There were umpires everywhere, men who said who was winning or losing the theoretical battle, who was alive and who was dead.
The umpire had comical news. The congregation had been theoretically spotted from the air by a theoretical enemy. They were all theoretically deadnow. The theoretical corpses laughed and ate a hearty noontime meal.
Remembering this incident years later, Billy was struck by what a Tralfamadorian adventure with death that had been, to be dead and to eat at the same time.
Toward the end of maneuvers, Billy was given an emergency furlough home because his father, a barber in Ilium, New York, was shot dead by a friend while they were out hunting deer. So it goes.
When Billy got back from his furlough, there were orders for him to go overseas. He was needed in the headquarters company of an infantry regiment 􏰀ghting in Luxembourg. The regimental chaplain’s assistant had been killed in action. So it goes.
When Billy joined the regiment, it was in the process of being destroyed by the Germans in the famous Battle of the Bulge. Billy never even got to meet the chaplain he was supposed to assist, was never even issued a steel helmet and combat boots. This was in December of 1944, during the last mighty German attack of the war.
Billy survived, but he was a dazed wanderer far behind the new German lines. Three other wanderers, not quite so dazed, allowed Billy to tag along. Two of them were scouts, and one was an antitank gunner. They were without food or maps. Avoiding Germans, they were delivering themselves into rural silences ever more profound. They ate snow.
  
They went Indian 􏰀le. First came the scouts, clever, graceful, quiet. They had ri􏰁es. Next came the antitank gunner, clumsy and dense, warning Germans away with a Colt .45 automatic in one hand and a trench knife in the other.
Last came Billy Pilgrim, empty-handed, bleakly ready for death. Billy was preposterous—six feet and three inches tall, with a chest and shoulders like a box of kitchen matches. He had no helmet, no overcoat, no weapon, and no boots. On his feet were cheap, low-cut civilian shoes which he had bought for his father’s funeral. Billy had lost a heel, which made him bob up-and-down, up-and-down. The involuntary dancing, up-and-down, up-and-down, made his hip joints sore.
Billy was wearing a thin 􏰀eld jacket, a shirt and trousers of scratchy wool, and long underwear that was soaked with sweat. He was the only one of the four who had a beard. It was a random, bristly beard, and some of the bristles were white, even though Billy was only twenty-one years old. He was also going bald. Wind and cold and violent exercise had turned his face crimson.
He didn’t look like a soldier at all. He looked like a filthy flamingo.
And on the third day of wandering, somebody shot at the four from far away—shot four times as they crossed a narrow brick road. One shot was for the scouts. The next one was for the antitank gunner, whose name was Roland Weary.
The third bullet was for the 􏰀lthy 􏰁amingo, who stopped dead center in the road when the lethal bee buzzed past his ear. Billy stood there politely, giving the marksman another chance. It was his addled understanding of the rules of warfare that the marksman should be given a second chance. The next shot missed Billy’s kneecaps by inches, going end-on-end, from the sound of it.
Roland Weary and the scouts were safe in a ditch, and Weary growled at Billy, “Get out of the road, you dumb motherfucker.” The last word was still a novelty in the speech of white people in 1944. It was fresh and astonishing to Billy, who had never fucked anybody—and it did its job. It woke him up and got him off the road.
“Saved your life again, you dumb bastard,” Weary said to Billy in the ditch. He had been saving Billy’s life for days, cursing him, kicking him, slapping him, making him move. It was absolutely necessary that cruelty be used, because Billy wouldn’t do anything to save himself. Billy wanted to quit. He was cold, hungry, embarrassed, incompetent. He could scarcely distinguish between sleep and wakefulness now, on the third day, found no important differences, either, between walking and standing still.
He wished everybody would leave him alone. “You guys go on without me,” he said again and again.
   Weary was as new to war as Billy. He was a replacement, too. As a part of a gun

crew, he had helped to 􏰀re one shot in anger—from a 57-millimeter antitank gun. The gun made a ripping sound like the opening of the zipper on the 􏰁y of God Almighty. The gun lapped up snow and vegetation with a blowtorch thirty feet long. The 􏰁ame left a black arrow on the ground, showing the Germans exactly where the gun was hidden. The shot was a miss.
What had been missed was a Tiger tank. It swiveled its 88-millimeter snout around sniffingly, saw the arrow on the ground. It fired. It killed everybody on the gun crew but Weary. So it goes.
Roland Weary was only eighteen, was at the end of an unhappy childhood spent mostly in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He had been unpopular in Pittsburgh. He had been unpopular because he was stupid and fat and mean, and smelled like bacon no matter how much he washed. He was always being ditched in Pittsburgh by people who did not want him with them.
It made Weary sick to be ditched. When Weary was ditched, he would 􏰀nd somebody who was even more unpopular than himself, and he would horse around with that person for a while, pretending to be friendly. And then he would 􏰀nd some pretext for beating the shit out of him.
It was a pattern. It was a crazy, sexy, murderous relationship Weary entered into with people he eventually beat up. He told them about his father’s collection of guns and swords and torture instruments and leg irons and so on. Weary’s father, who was a plumber, actually did collect such things, and his collection was insured for four thousand dollars. He wasn’t alone. He belonged to a big club composed of people who collected things like that.
Weary’s father once gave Weary’s mother a Spanish thumbscrew in working condition—for a kitchen paperweight. Another time he gave her a table lamp whose base was a model one foot high of the famous “Iron Maiden of Nuremberg.” The real Iron Maiden was a medieval torture instrument, a sort of boiler which was shaped like a woman on the outside—and lined with spikes. The front of the woman was composed of two hinged doors. The idea was to put a criminal inside and then close the doors slowly. There were two special spikes where his eyes would be. There was a drain in the bottom to let out all the blood.
So it goes.
Weary had told Billy Pilgrim about the Iron Maiden, about the drain in her bottom —and what that was for. He had talked to Billy about dum-dums. He told him about his father’s Derringer pistol, which could be carried in a vest pocket, which was yet capable of making a hole in a man “which a bull bat could 􏰁y through without touching either wing.”
  
Weary scornfully bet Billy one time that he didn’t even know what a blood gutter was. Billy guessed that it was the drain in the bottom of the Iron Maiden, but that was wrong. A blood gutter, Billy learned, was the shallow groove in the side of the blade of a sword or bayonet.
Weary told Billy about neat tortures he’d read about or seen in the movies or heard on the radio—about other neat tortures he himself had invented. One of the inventions was sticking a dentist’s drill into a guy’s ear. He asked Billy what he thought the worst form of execution was. Billy had no opinion. The correct answer turned out to be this: “You stake a guy out on an anthill in the desert—see? He’s facing upward, and you put honey all over his balls and pecker, and you cut o􏰃 his eyelids so he has to stare at the sun till he dies.” So it goes.
Now, lying in the ditch with Billy and the scouts after having been shot at, Weary made Billy take a very close look at his trench knife. It wasn’t government issue. It was a present from his father. It had a ten-inch blade that was triangular in cross section. Its grip consisted of brass knuckles, was a chain of rings through which Weary slipped his stubby fingers. The rings weren’t simple. They bristled with spikes.
Weary laid the spikes along Billy’s cheek, roweled the cheek with savagely a􏰃ectionate restraint. “How’d you like to be hit with this—hm? Hmmmmmmmmm?” he wanted to know.
“I wouldn’t,” said Billy.
“Know why the blade’s triangular?”
“No.”
“Makes a wound that won’t close up.”
“Oh.”
“Makes a three-sided hole in a guy. You stick an ordinary knife in a guy—makes a slit. Right? A slit closes right up. Right?”
“Right.”
“Shit. What do you know? What the hell they teach in college?”
“I wasn’t there very long,” said Billy, which was true. He had had only six months of college, and the college hadn’t been a regular college, either. It had been the night school of the Ilium School of Optometry.
“Joe College,” said Weary scathingly.
